three two one boom and we're live how
are you
come on I'm good I'm pouring coffee in
the first seconds the perfect without
chat that's the good way to do it with a
cafeteria yeah named in a French way a
French press that's what they're called
is it cold well it's called I think it's
called cafeteria but it's probably
called pot of coffee but that makes
sense but you know there's a French word
for it that we just ignore a lot of the
food you know because you have herbs you
know herbs hmm and I used to do this bit
of a - which I really enjoyed saying you
know the difference in British and
American you say this and you say herbs
and we say herbs because it's a fucking
H in it right
but and I thought why does the H dropped
off for America I think it's because put
a lot of French guys would have come
over immigration and they would have
done a lot of cooking you know these
French guys know about cooking they do
the herbs and they they cut the H off
totally so I think that was an influence
from that probably Julia Child
Julie Joshy French yeah I think wasn't
she she is now I mean she's into French
cooking alright okay but yet maybe
laughs I sit next to Washington say we
will use herbs with this stuff here and
that we could do the revolution you war
and then and then you guys are waiting
and then they will hate each other
forever
well you guys also do a lot of weird
stuff where you put like a you and color
and you have a Y and tires what are you
putting ties open I are yes yeah I think
we had we had first dibs on the Lakers
yeah I don't understand what we did you
know what you got on the you guys got on
the Mayflower and they said okay we're
gonna talk like this for now they say
whew a lot and we're gonna get put get
rid of why you know tires if we're gonna
adventurers get rid of the way yeah I
just think the you and color and honor
is a you and honor as well and yes we've
got it and you've got it out I think
yours is more logical on a load for
honor yeah not for herbes no herbs is
that's more French influence I agree
yeah I always wondered because I grew up
in Boston and I was wondered like those
were the first people to leave England
and Europe like what the fuck happened
to their language because they developed
the most disgusting brand of it
well you've got your A's your bus
today's which I can't hear strong bustin
coming out of here yeah I got rid of it
I heard myself on television once when I
was like 19 years old it was like holy
shit what is that well you guys had or
you used to have their mother father
brothers fuckin car and it's the ah yeah
and we say mother father sister
we don't have an r at the end of our
mother brother sister and you know yeah
we say mother I said a mother hmm and
the rest of America has much stronger
and Island has that that's a very Irish
influenced thing and for us the I when
we're playing when I'm playing American
when I was in you know doing roles like
that the our was the hardest thing to
get hard hard car remember friends
saying hey I was creating this thing
that came out like hard hard tar and I
thought that is the one to practice
because that is just hard hard tar we've
called it hard hard towards just just
doesn't sound the same you spent a lot
of time on the only time I've ever spent
in England is working like a little bit
of downtime doing stand-up and hang out
over there but most of its just been
working even working for the UFC or I'd
never been really get a chance to really
spend time in England I'd like to I'd
like to do that just together I
understand you folks well I heard
different breed well I think at the base
having played 45 countries now I think
everyone is actually the same when you
get down below a level but you know if
you're gonna reach for you there's got
to be a number of things which would
make it seem different and brand names
will be different than you sports does
you know everyone sports does everyone's
party's interview that kind of thing but
underneath it all it's gonna be there's
gonna be more mainstream people to come
here I'll turn these people that's me
and the whole spectrum now like in the
old days it used to be everything was
mainstream then a bit of alternative now
we I think your country my country have
a whole spectrum of what's interest
people it's much more open in that way
hmm
yeah no I certainly agree we yeah it's
the the collection of people is very
similar it's just they're operating in a
different environment a different
theatre right yeah yeah and you know
we're tightly smashed together would it
be 65 million in your 300 million
and you're such a large your country is
so large compared to us yeah because
there was a thing of ten only ten
percent of Americans have passports but
if you look at the aerial something like
that but then if you look at where the
temps and can go in America it's just so
huge row it's slightly more
understandable why a lot of Americans
say I don't need a passport because I'm
just gonna go to that place that's
understanding of you but I think you
know I think it would do everybody good
to go
somewhere like like Asia like every time
I go to Asia
I always think okay people are like this
too yes is this is an interesting thing
to experience Thailand in particular
which I really loved
right Thailand is it's amazing because
it's like wow they might they hit like
this perfect frequency where everybody's
really friendly and really nice and it's
it's a you know they call it the land of
the smiles it's this very unusual
environment there where everybody seems
like warm and greeting I don't think I'm
ran into one rude Thai while I was there
I that sounds very interesting and I i
I've I've yeah when I took Asia but
unfortunately it was kind of in out and
you know yeah but that's interesting but
the ties more than any other country
because I'm sure they must have a black
market and a thing and some gangster of
some time maybe they're very nice
gangsters they were the nicest gangsters
we know I'm sure they're not ask you
first before they show you I'm sure when
it gets to the drug smuggling and yeah
sex trafficking and all the other day
but would you mind awfully polite drug
smugglers I mean they they have
obviously a very open environment when
you go to see Bangkok it's like moly
Thai fights and chaos and a lot of
expats wandering around drinking it's
just you know there it's a different
sort of world over there but when I was
there I was in Chiang Mai and it's just
super friendly people beautiful
landscape very nice have you been in
Vietnam no never heard it's amazing
though but yeah I mean I find that from
an American perspective it would be very
interesting people going there even if
they you know were there before and
during the time of war or after just to
see how people are because they fought
for so long
the French stuff before that but even
before yeah America got involved in it
they call it a thousand-year war that
they fought
anyway it's interesting it's I hope new
generations coming along
don't bring the baggage of before you
know previous generations and we can all
move try and move forward into a world
that's more positive yeah it doesn't
necessarily look like that well what has
always been really interesting to me
about Vietnam that I learned from
Bourdain was that they they don't hold
any grudges towards Americans which I
find incredible I I got that sense of it
I have not played there haven't been
there but I got that sense that they
were looking forward they just accept it
that's the past and they don't have any
grudges and just like it's an amazing
attitude it is an amazing attitude I
suppose it's better if you they did an
empirical it's empirical in the way they
kind of they didn't like do a massive
concur in the end America left and so
they got what they were
I assume the majority of them were
trying to get you know yeah they can run
it however they want to run it but yeah
it's it's tragic the things the wars are
getting to do I was going to be in the
military when I was a kid that was one
of my I want to be in Special Forces and
I okay now being a transgender guy with
that but yeah that was where I was I
know Trump wouldn't have let me in there
force is right now if I were applied
right this second but yeah so I follow
everything I I kind of run my life on
the military that sounds a bit with I
run my career on a military thinks it's
quite difficult to you know any career
putting it together kind of weird what's
your next move what's this how so yulik
strategize isn't it yo yeah strategy out
the wazoo I plan 50 years ahead
really oh yeah well if you think about
you came out I came out as transgender
34 years ago that's not the first good
thing that an agent wants to hear you
transgender that's it's like this is
such a thing this is even now they would
say okay well it's got a little better
than it was for about five ten millennia
it's a little better now but it's still
not the hottest ticker that everyone's
what transgender guys it's in here for
this that yeah it's not the top of the
list right and I've also got boy mode
and girl mode and I do
drama dramatic films in boy mode and
then I'm touring in girl mode and doing
stand-up and I campaign for politics in
go mode I just how do we do that I just
switched change you know take off heels
flat shoes yeah because if you were just
talking like if you didn't have makeup
bond and you didn't have the heels and
the nails you just seemed male yeah yeah
well it's I think it's genetically
inbuilt you know there's some I think
there's quite a lot of people maybe who
were the the way they're like they live
their lives live their own personality
they're not particularly male or female
mm-hmm I feel but I've always felt since
I was four or five I want to express
this side of myself and it's built in I
think its genetic and if you analyze
masculine feminine if you really get
down to it you found it impossible to
come up with anything that was
particularly masculine particularly
family except for the ability to build
muscle mass is easier for men in a
venomous that's it but you know great
footballers soccer players men and women
athletics runners men women strong
character men sweet character sure men
and women mathematicians whatever
whatever it is there's nothing that you
can really say ah daddy's only good shot
and with a gun no anyone could do that
it's we're all humans and so and we get
fixated by the masculine feminine
where's it's a tiger if Tigers attacking
you and trying to kill you you don't go
now is this a girl tiger or a boy we
don't care about it they don't care
either the Tigers so you've always felt
like you gravitated towards feminine
things towards no gravitated towards
both I had I gravitated towards playing
soccer I was in the first team for two
years when I was a kid was planning to
do Officer Training Corps and then go
Marines or Paris and then guns a Special
Forces our SAS which would be the
equivalent of your Delta Force and that
was a distinct planned you a lot about
that and I thought which war they're
gonna send me to actually which one I
said we do and they could be the idiots
that I'm at school with will send me to
the wrong war in World War two is very
clear and then after that every other
war is kind of hazy
but there's all this feminine side girls
side I'm not sure how to do it the
articular even after 34 years it's
difficult to articulate but I wanted to
express that and if I look more like a
woman than I you know it it would be
much easier
but yeah so I decided to do that in 85
when it wasn't cool and I got had a lot
of fights in the street a lot of people
screaming abuse at me taken a couple of
people to court or just reported and
police it then we went to court and yeah
and you fight you fight your fights
instead of going to do a military
fighting thing I've I've done I've said
this might be wrong for me to say this
but I say I've done Special Forces
civilian division you know fighting
people people and now performing for
languages I've run over 80 marathons I'm
going into politics next year and and
yeah and I came and the transgender
thing is it's in a better place than it
was back in 85 well certainly now I
think because of probably Caitlyn Jenner
and the the movement that you're seeing
for to accept people that want to do
whatever and anything yet want to do
yeah it is just we're more accepting of
each other we do see to be more what's
the word because were the team all open
more allowing there's a word for it
which is just walked out of my head
Billie mean that word but yeah and at
the same time people going around doing
more killings and stuff at the thing and
I'm well there's more people yeah
there's just sheer volume of human has
the and the population growth is insane
its diverse something like 200,000 years
to get to 1 billion yeah and then it's
taken this 50 years to get to 7 a half
billion which is scary yeah when I was a
kid I think the United States population
was less than 200 million now it's 300
million global was whatever it was now
it's 7 plus but borders an 8 yeah yeah I
came out I think it was 6.5 I think
that's just running away and one of the
weird things is if we are having less
Wars if we're getting better health to
people then more
kids are around and some people in I
suppose lower income backgrounds and
around the world they will say well we
need to have six kids because that's
what mmm you know from her for what much
money yeah that's what we do but as
economics care better people have less
kids and that hopefully that should calm
down there should be a bottoming I think
they feel yeah yeah leveling off of the
public yeah I've read that theory that
they believe that industrialized nations
and westernized society when people
start having two careers you know and
then two career households people are
less likely to have a bunch of kids yeah
so as people do better they have less
kids yeah yeah so I'm a gut i I'm a
glass is two-thirds full person that's
really instead of a glass is half-full
half-empty person
so you're optimist I'm a big I couldn't
be here yeah in the hills with the nose
I'm planning to do this we've got a film
coming that literally in the country and
that I'm going to politics as well when
you first started wearing women's
clothes and dresses and makeup onstage
people think it was a gimmick what did
they think they did I really I decided
not to call them women's clothes just
like to say they're for my clothes I
would just wear dresses right you know
like women can wear trousers or pants
and we used to call it men's pants and
that's that pants right so but yeah they
first started talking about it and not
wearing anything again look kind of boy
like and male like and then you were
talking about it like I had the first
check this is my first ever joke I had
this about two years before I thought I
said look you don't stand up so if
you're from a minority it's kind of a
good thing so if you in stand up terms
so if you're from a low-income
background you've seen rich people it's
so easy for them is your woman is a man
man from ethnic backgrounds a white
people so if you're white male middle
class than a vice useless so thank God
I'm a transvestite my first love and
everyone thought he's making jokes about
something that he's not either and and
they wouldn't believe me and journalists
were going I don't know why he's doing
this
he's doing pretty well now but this is
this a joke so I thought I better way
addresses gonna put some makeup on and
then they said okay he's doing this he
is serious but he looks a mess kind of
baby elephant thing I was doing okay get
your weight and a truck you could have
better haircut Matt and you just got to
fail a lot and there's a humiliation
period I mean this is the weird thing
about coming out that it's kind of
humanly I think people say you look
people say horrible think what they say
what the fuck is that somebody said to
my face right there as I was walking out
of a restaurant so I thought that's a
not very nice and you have to be able to
deflect it and go well you're obviously
a scumbag so fuck you man so mostly men
yes and occasionally women okay use new
women but yeah I mean you know it's low
it's people have low lower character
they're on lesser character if you're
strong character in yourself you okay
living that live what the hell right
you know people okay doesn't look quite
look together but you know life's tough
enough but if if you want to put someone
down you raise your own status buddy
yeah and they will do that and so I have
stood in the street and people have
unloaded you know swear words invective
to me and I've just found a viola viola
they go what your father fuck you and
then literally you know two or three of
them or one of me just screaming at each
other and I just won't back down now but
this happened recently was nine months
ago someone outside my house and in in
London just having a go at me so he knew
who you were as well yeah they did they
knew exactly where they were liver said
we're gonna do your house is a West
because of the way you dress well it was
he added that into it there wasn't there
was an altercation over I was just
packing my characters I was just driving
home to see my dad and Santa you got to
give me a ride in your car I said
someone heckles me like that in the
street I just come back with the you
will never have a ride in my car if I
have to give you whatever give you so
that happened and then this guy went off
and you know this and that and the other
in Rowlett it's just screaming it means
so I'm shouting back at him giving him
word for word and then who is it
idiot and they said oh that's this guy
oh he's a known he's a nutter you know
he's just he does this I went all right
maybe I should mention it he said he's
given to my eye I mentioned it to the
police there oh man
weeks like that same thing oh it's the
same ticket that's right next time I go
now he knows where you live
well he always did he was right in front
of the house that's always fun isn't it
yeah well and he said we're gonna do
your house where no way you know so this
was this that was his opening gambit
we're gonna do your house when you're
away hmm
letting the letting you know they're a
coward yeah well it was it was not very
positive he didn't run a payout company
that's kind of terrorism right there
trying to strike terror in you when
you're a well yeah that well that is yes
that is the hatred thing is did you
think about just going out there and
fucking him up I don't think I'm quite
that I would have liked if I'd gone
through the military thing of a gun that
I'd learnt how to do that you know and
I've never have craft my guard myself up
to the thing I do need to grab my girl
herself up but I haven't got that so um
well I saw we were talking before and
you were trying tell me that you were
lazy I'm like to fuck you I saw that
thing that you did that documentary
where you ran a series of marathons in a
row with no training at all and I
remember thinking before that I had this
opinion of you and the opinion of you
was you're a funny guy you're a funny
comedian you you have good stand-up you
obviously work hard at it but then I saw
that and I was like oh okay there's
something going on there like yeah that
was a different kind of human being the
kind of human being that could push
themselves into doing that day after day
after day and I looked at your feet
where your skin was literally falling
off and you're taping everything up and
that's a that's a person that's got you
have an iron will like that's a very
unusual will for a comedian who doesn't
really exercise like when you were doing
I mean you were I mean you may be
exercised a little bit but you weren't
in shape now and you decided to run how
many marathons and well was it the UK
one was it the first one yeah that was
43 and 51 days 43 marathons in a row in
51 days with no training at a dev week I
did have training about six weeks
training yeah which is not a lot but
they did they said that you know
sometimes if you run a marathon you
should train for nine months before that
you know and I thought well if I'm gonna
do forty three that's gonna be I won't
be training forever I can't be bothered
with
so I but you know and this happened in
your Civil War in maybe in any war I
don't quite encyclopedic about your
civil war and revolution water bit it's
world war two but try on the spot
training you know training as you go
along that's what I did the first ten
Matins trains you for the next 33 what
was it like when you go over the first
day though the first marathon was okay
fuck my first days okay because well
it's all in your head there's a more
mental than it is physical and so the
first math that I've heard of people
running merit is run/walk staggered not
very fast we'll get it done boom the
second marathon is we kids you go I've
done one I'm on the second and you can't
really rejoice you can't punch the sky
you can't put a medal around your neck
you already you've got up at 5:00 or
6:00 in the morning and you're it's
midday and you're going through your
second one and then you're through the
third one and then you through the
fourth one and then it was raining and
my feet was shredding and I hold the
moisture it was yes it made it too soft
you know and they were rubbing on the on
the running shoes and I didn't know how
they how do I fix it when I'm actually
wearing on it all the time so we started
bathing in surgical spirit which you
call something else it's a it's a
ethanol methanol anyways it's some sort
of alcoholic spirit and it it takes the
moisture out of your feet and so they
became stones it's kind of which um
anyway if anyone doesn't have some
surgical spare if you google it now
you'll see what it's called in America
but it's it's some sort of alcoholic
thing that just removes moisture and so
it made my feet my toes like little
stones and kind of tough and actually
that got us through and then I started
and also apparently because I did 27
marathons in 27 days in South Africa in
2016 and that was the temperatures were
crazy on that but it seems that the body
will switch on a healing property that
we've got latent in ourselves that we
don't use and you will heal quicker
you'll heal faster the more you get so I
got so you get stronger and both the
British one and the South African one I
got stronger as I went on really the
first ten days are the other key thing
and after that it's kind of easier
you're used to it your body just adapts
and he understands yep
this crazy asshole
yussle and the brain goes what kind of
mouth and shall we run today as opposed
to what kind of marathon yeah well I
think that's what the brain is doing cuz
the first day that's going you got to do
what this marathon it would be okay the
second day the race going now we're
gonna we're doing another one third day
fourth day fifth day this is insane and
then day ten the brains going okay
you're on this kind of kick or something
I understand let's let's try better
Mathis don't push it too hard you know
you the brain starts talking to the body
and somehow it levels out roundabout
main then it gets surreal math at 18
math and 23 I remember marathon 31 that
was a lovely just so weird yeah but it
was funny and you own the road you know
Woody Guthrie this land is our land is
my land
the you become like it's your land it's
like that it's everybody's land because
you're running on the roads of this
country I grew up in and you feel that
the roads the fields the birds I didn't
listen to any music I wanted the
slightly a safety thing for traffic but
also you could hear everything that's
going on birds
chatter reverse running there was I ran
past somebody's house this is all about
day two and there was a river running
there and it went through the back of
this guy's garden and he said oh hello I
said got Ike Ike Ike went and visit him
and I washed my feet in in the river and
then I put the socks back on and I
carried on running I thought I can you
can do with his I took BlackBerry's out
of the bushes like I did when I was a
kid it just became a fetid feral this
holistic or feral marathon's that's what
I was doing it's not run it's not people
shouting from the sides
no one cares really which is fine and
I'm just wrapped up in this other place
and it was it's beautiful I mean it's
really Zen well it seems like it would
change you like accomplishing something
like that like on the last day the last
run when you cross the line what was
that feeling like well this is a pitch
you brought up that picture they put up
some flags and stuff that was beautiful
I tried to do it a five hour marathon
now if you know the speeds it's two
hours is what they told a break man so
this is really slow but then having done
42 marathon suits maybe it's fair and I
missed it by about 30 second
but it was it was beautiful to finish it
I was really quite strong all the way
through I didn't stop at any time that
was that was good in South Africa though
I I did 27 in 27 days salute to Nelson
Mandela's 27 years in prison
and day 5 they put me in hospital
because they thought my kidneys were
giving up you experiencing rhabdo what
am I like you know yeah yeah yeah yeah
your first brother ever talked to who's
known about rhabdomyolysis yeah I got
rhabdo in 2012 how'd you get that I was
on a anti cholesterol drug just a sort
of health drug your cholesterol to a
high tech this thing once a day and side
effect is rhabdomyolysis see which I
couldn't spell being dyslexic and I was
paying Brown peeing and and I did it
there's no real pain a lot of left the
joy I was really tired and this is
without exercise you were getting it I
was on marathon three American four so I
had trained that train before though I'd
done some training before that one a bit
weird with my training but yeah so there
wasn't a huge amount of training before
that one but third mouth and and I was
started peeing a bit of brown this was
not through the whole series of
marathons or it was no well I tried to
do South Africa twice 2012 was my first
one after day four on an anti
cholesterol drug trying to control my
cholesterol and and I started broke
Brian pee and then they said you gotta
get a hospital now the guys you were
gonna put fluid through you you have to
go see a specialist especially said you
can't continue this 27 thing because you
have to get all this stuff out of your
system otherwise the kid needs because
it shreds them on you know this wrestles
into the bloodstream clogs up kidneys
kidney failure very dangerous a lot of
fighters get it really you know yeah I'm
a fighter died from it recently in
Boston in the Massachusetts area yeah
it's it's apparently something that
happens when fighters over train as well
like sometimes they're not doing it
scientifically so they're not analyzing
their heart rate their heart rate
variability and they don't know that
they haven't really truly recovered and
they continue to push themselves because
they they want to prepare harder
yes they have this sort of mental
mindset just train harder and you'll be
better off but that's not necessarily
the case of your body can't physically
keep up with the recovery and sometimes
they'll go into a fight over trained and
then they wind up getting robbed Oh from
the fight it's happened several times
and it's caused a few deaths yeah well
they said this you said you carry on
right at running now in 2012 you won't
make it
so 2016 did you get off that medication
yeah I would think that all that running
you wouldn't need that medication I
would have thought but you know they
check your and you say it was just a
fuckers you know you'd be on this for
rest of your life that stuff's kids are
shit out of me those statins yeah it's
it's it goes to a scary place but 2016
day five Bloods were looking a bit weird
day off so day 27 I did double marathon
and that was kind of interesting day so
you run one marathon last day of you run
you've only done 25 race and said it's
the day 27 so and when you go through
that finishing that the final flag where
the walkie they should be waving flags
you've got another marathon to go and
it's just yeah I might brain I thought
this is kind of good but because it's
90k you're gonna do today
ignore it carry on and it was a rough
rough all day that's five hours then
another five hours five hours plus
another five hours plus in the end it
was six I took 11 hours and 50 minutes
to run 90k so I need double marathon in
11 hours 10 that's damn good yeah it was
good enough and there's they got a they
got a comrades marathon in South Africa
which is 90k and they got a 12-hour
cutoff so I said I will do 90 K in 12
hours
mmm the double marathons at a before
then I did another 6k after I'd finished
that last moment must been orgasmic when
you've finished there must have been
incredible finishing the 84 was
beautiful year finish at the steps of
Nelson Mandela's statue right he was
made president and that was beautiful
and and rough I'd had to speed up in the
last hour because of complications so I
actually got faster have you ever done a
thing where you're knackered and Mac and
said now go
why'd you have to speed up there was a
wind it was a thing called Sport Relief
I was doing it for so I was raising
money and and I wanted to finish inside
the camera window there to win
till 3:15 south-african time police
escorts were needed at certain bits
otherwise you'll get carjacked things
and and it's and you won't survive this
big so I said can't we just ignore the
the carjacking thing no you can't ignore
it so I said okay stop the clock put me
in the thing drive me to Pretoria stop
me off and then I'll run there and we'll
just continue it on there so we had to
do that so he got behind because I
wasn't running because I had to be
driven across this dangerous period of
part point of road to be dropped to
Pretoria then I just had to run the
kilometres off so they have like a
carjacked area yeah they have certain
areas where there's it's kind of out
there there's no-one really out there
and you just go along there and they'll
be though anything can happen
so my field producer fixer he was just
saying we don't do this just you can't
go there so I said we'll just get me
closer to the finishing line and then
I'll just run around doesn't really
matter where I'm running now we know
it's Pretoria no we need to finish I
need to just run that distance so I ran
the distance off but the time had got
behind so I had to speed up from 7.5
kilometres an hour to 10 kilometers an
hour so an extra third of this meat
which was kind of evil no I moaned a lot
that day I just I was just a moaning
whining god I can't do this but I was
never considering not doing it and I got
there the the the live feed to London
finished at quarter past and we've got
there about 13 minutes past we got about
two minutes and they just caught it
before they went off it was like you
know like in a film you know it's
perfectly designed I just knew if I got
that probably I get more money a raise
more money an extra hundred gram because
we've seen this idiot finish he's
actually doing it you know so that was
beautiful and then I talked to the this
very interesting thing because you know
if you're talking to prayer it was a
press I talked to the press after that
was a Sunday and so they kept talking
normally they said we can't talk anymore
we've got two minutes and then we're
gonna talk to important people go away
that's what normally happens if you're
talking to live presentational press but
I was on thing and they just kept
talking to me because obviously a slow
news day nothing was happening and they
say we've got this idiot who's just run
you know 27 marathons and they kept
asking me other quest and what favorite
colour do you have and what how big are
your legs and what
Thank You legs yeah I don't know what
they were asking me but in the end these
two interviews idea that with national I
just said I'm gonna go away now I'm
gonna stop this I had to stop my own
interview which I've never done in my
life and I realized they've just got no
one else to talk to
yes did you notice a big change in
public perception of you once you've
completed those marathons yeah the yeah
the certain community and if you're
transgender guy and you come out certain
people go but I crossed into a line of
well if you're gonna do that and you
hate I know you do some comedy you do
drama stuff we think you're a bit you
know bonkers and out there but fair play
I got this sort of I got a pass play to
you if you're gonna do that and I was
trying to do selection you know SAS they
have selection your Delta Forces Navy
SEALs they all have this thing that can
you just go on and on and on and it's
the stamina thing and that was my
civilian selection for my own whatever
solidification forces just to understand
yourself yeah I'd I know I can go a lot
for having coming out as transgender
when you're straight I'm straight
transgender so I fancy women so I'm
gonna want to be lesbian so if you come
out you you could stay in the closet and
a lot down the millennia if we go back
to the ancient Egyptians and further
there's probably a lot of guys said I
don't tell anyone about this I just I
fancy women just go that I just won't
mention this kind of feelings in my head
and I thought I should mention it
because if people shout and scream at me
in the streets I will I will fight that
at least verbally fight there or you
know if they start going for I have had
one fight in the street and I landed one
punch yeah yeah I taught myself two
years on the streets because of this
yeah yeah the guy was was just giving me
Oh Tracy only your dress and I was I've
been a street performer for four years a
common girl so I was living on the
street you know no I was working on the
streets and you know just knew a lot of
people go around I just had met you
don't have to be like this we can all
space enough for everyone live and let
live kept giving me stuff he was a bit
drunk every Leicester so he was just
gonna stay on that wicket
keep saying and I said just chill out
chill out and then the third time I just
said I just fuck over now when
I am I am loaded load of swear words on
him and then he swung for me which was
the handy thing because that came up in
court and then I swung back and I landed
one punch which I was pleased by and I
was doing the wipe on wipe off stuff I
was doing this mule blocking yeah from
the jujitsu book that I taught myself
Jiu Jitsu from a book if you could
believe that which is you know you'll
get these books with the different moves
in and you can't teach yourself that but
I did judo when I was six actually as
well so I liked the idea of doing these
things but I felt judo was always at the
bigger kid you all get in pajamas and
the bigger kid just throws you around of
it I can never quite get the hanger
throw the bigger kids I could do it now
but I've never anyway yeah this is a
fantastic video online of a very old
judo expert
and I think he's in his 70s or his 80s
and he's working out with these young
men and you see his mastery of judo as
these young powerful men try to
manipulate him and throw him around and
he effortlessly watch this this old man
and he see him he's very very old and
he's throwing these guys around and me
as a martial arts expert these knees men
are not doing this willingly this is
legitimate like even that guy tries to
throw him and this is a black belt who's
trying to throw him but he's so good and
his his use of balance and leverage is
so amazing he just knows where to be
like see how yeah yeah that just throws
himself into a perfect position I mean
it's really stunning to watch and this
looks like it was from the 50s or
something like that because it's really
old but yeah does it say just has 75
year old judo master I mean this is an
old man and the the young man is much
larger than him yeah significantly like
25% larger than me at least maybe even
looking at me he looks least twice as
big as him and he cannot throw this old
man it's really amazing judo is a
beautiful art he's getting more and more
full on his these guys I gotta get this
he's trying I mean he knows that this
guy's a master but it's just look at
that like it's incredible I mean the way
that guy's body can toss these people
through the air and yet they they are
helpless
they can't have anything there's no way
that look at that boom 375 years old
I mean it hurts my hips just looking at
that you know you couldn't have many
different martial arts that yeah yeah
which ones jujitsu and striking martial
arts my background was in striking which
is in Taekwondo and then eventually kick
boxing and Muay Thai and then I got
really into jujitsu when I got older and
what I'm choose grappling it's all
choking people it's like you it's not
throws like judo there are throws in
jiu-jitsu but there it really comes from
judo it comes from the ground fighting
aspect of Judo which is not as
emphasized but the Brazilians really
really emphasized it and sort of they
they figured out what the best way for a
smaller person defeat a larger person is
through leverage and jiu-jitsu is really
the only martial art that I can think of
that works like you think of a martial
art in a movie like in a Bruce Lee movie
like there's all these people and they
were always bigger than Bruce Lee but
Bruce Lee fucked them all up but in the
real world that doesn't usually work
like the bigger people have such a giant
advantage when it comes to like striking
like you're never gonna see like a
heavyweight in the UFC fight a
bantamweight fight a person who weighs
135 pounds just wouldn't it's just too
much of an advantage in jiu-jitsu it's
legitimately possible for a hundred and
forty pound man to strangle a two
hundred plus pound man and do it
relatively easily if they're talented I
I saw documentary on Bruce Lee and he
had the way of no way yeah which really
appealed to me I mean that is like a
philosophy quite a month I'm a fighting
philosophy but to be so trained up in so
many things that they do not know what
you're gonna do and I kind of adopted
that well he had to overcome significant
prejudice to adopt that perspective
because when he was studying martial
arts you were supposed to be loyal to
your style so if you learn kung fu you
were supposed to be a kung fu man for
life yeah you weren't supposed to also
dabble in boxing and wrestling and all
these different things that he would you
then he was interested in taking what's
useful from all different martial arts
and applying them
in a sense he was really the founder of
mixed martial arts which you see today
and right in the UK they have Cage
Warriors and the US as the UFC and you
know there's this worldwide now the the
art of mixed martial arts of putting all
the different styles together and you
could do whatever you want within the
rules now I liked the attitude of that I
still have a life attitude and there's
obviously the fighting attitude of it
and it's the life attitude of just be
prepared for anything and everything
yeah and in be like water like that was
his other thing yeah just to go around
things move through things yeah don't
don't
headbutt things figure out what's the
best way what is the what's the best
best path yeah you know yeah I just I
haven't learned well I say I think I'm
waiting for someone to give me a really
hard time and I said now I am checking
in and I am learning in my shot because
I've really do you live in England yeah
there's so many places and we live here
and I'm always touring yeah I was
touring and I'm filming and so I just
keep moving but yeah I know but it's
you've got to make the time special if
you're moving around all the time
yeah you'd have to line it up so okay
we're gonna check in with this guy and
that place they said yes and you'd have
to take it in like you do it's got to be
something that you're serious that as
opposed to doubt I didn't want to dabble
like um stand-up when I'm filming I
still do stand-up when I'm filming and
if I'm doing stand-up I will think about
doing the drama you know drama and
comedy that kind of related but
different so I keep pushing both you've
got to keep everything match fit for
life mm-hmm and that's what like Meritus
I can drop marathons now I just did
three marathons
I just dropped three merit got home from
playing Australia to the train up to
barrack up on tweets on the Scottish
border ran up to Dunbar which is one
marathon I went across to Edinburgh
second marathon are you running a
marathon with other people we're just
running it for yourself get a backpack
put my stuff in there change of clothes
Wow wash kick off I go no back up and is
this something that started because of
that series of marathons you did yeah
it's and I want to stay match fit for
life because that's what I've noticed so
everyone's a natural at that all animals
are natural animals and there are the
wild animals which we were and then
there are domesticated animals
we ourself domesticated mm-hmm we are
actually designed to be wild we're
supposed to be matched fit for life and
I think as time goes on you know people
get back into training or whatever they
say would that really hurt so I backed
off I think it hurts because you're not
doing it enough I'm not sure if it's a
pure science this is just a feeling for
me maybe that's that I need to stay fit
and running and swimming and whatever
I'm doing and the less I do the more the
body punishes me mm if I'm doing it all
the time if I'm always I try and run
every morning I almost did this morning
but I have to get up and do stuff today
but if I miss one then that's kind of
good because they're so in a recovery
time but I would just do hit training
high-intensity interval training every
morning and then the ability to just
drop three Mathis job seven marathons in
seven days you love that yeah I love to
have that in my back pocket and I don't
think that's that's not allowed that's
not a list of things you're supposed to
have but I know I can do it now and I
can do it with just a backpack on well
you can do it too because you have
autonomy you can kind of do whatever you
want to do right yeah in the earning
your living when you want to go make the
tire yeah but there's also the actual
that's not supposed to be in the list of
what is what humans do right right
you don't just go from around three and
three or seven and seven and I I love
that that's kind of that's that's out
there well there's clearly people that
are doing that yeah it's clear oh yes
beat everyone everything I done everyone
that someone's done way more than I've
done yeah and I kind of know I feel that
even if I don't know that facility I
have one crazy friend his name's Cameron
Haynes and he's a he's actually a famous
bow hunter but he's also an ultra
marathon runner and when he prepares for
these like big foot 200 so it's like 200
plus miles for the Moab 240 yeah 238
miles in the desert he runs a marathon a
day so run a marathon every day and then
he works a full-time job he's
legitimately crazy and you know he's he
always says that he doesn't take any
days off and he works a run a math and
they say running them look out really
Elliot really early run in the morning
run at lunch running at dawn
his beautiful match in the African
Dawn's I got coming up we worried about
something running up and grabbing yeah
well and that thing I wasn't I mean they
told me I supposed to have security I
was
I was kind of cool that's for people we
worry about people to get you around
Annie I was almost I was in a mountain
zebra National Park and you know if
you've ever been on a safari they say so
I said well they tell you to sit in this
sort of shower bank big open top vehicle
it's got metal bars open they say the
animals they know that the shape of that
they knows metal and metal doesn't taste
very good so you'll be fine and there's
a guy with a gun and you feel good but
when I went there of course they said
well you're running outside near the
vehicle and I thought this right this
pretty good television but okay I'll
just stay close so there's something's
coming and it they did I said what about
how the Lions doing the Lions have eaten
yesterday they're fine and they told me
you know and that's what lies they come
they never go for snacks Lions are kind
of organized like that
we ate yesterday we ripped apart some
animal and we don't need to go and have
a very crystal they knew they knew that
I knew whether I knew where they were
and that they were okay but they said
the Buffalo are around and they can
stamp you to death about I've hidden
their Buffalo so Black Death they called
them really what we call and Black Death
they're responsible for assuming they're
not as responsible as hippos hippos are
number one but they they fuck a lot of
people up man they don't take any shit
have you think about Bulls like people
when people try to ride bulls yeah like
domestic cow bulls and they're
ruthlessly aggressive animals I mean
they'll fucking throw you through the
air now think of them but wild and in
Africa and fighting off lions and that's
that's African buffalos I mean they are
ferocious animals and that just I didn't
know what I had to do I know that with
hippos if you come in between their
water source then they'll just kill you
they'll fuck you up I didn't know what I
have to do two buffaloes whether I have
to race it go anywhere near like to that
grab Mara yeah if they find you to be a
threat at all they're just so powerful
they just just launch you in the air
there's a great video that I was
watching this morning of a lion that was
trying to take out a small Buffalo and
the other one got behind the lion and
launched it through the air it was
literally flying like 40 feet in the air
like flipping head-over-heels because
there's the strength of this thing to
take a giant cat and just with its
she's whooping just flies that wasn't
the one with the crocodile as well
no no this was one that was it was on
the side of a dirt road all right have
you guys about the car busy it go too
busy wild on Instagram I think that's
the have you heard about the crop yes I
saw though yeah that's interesting
because that I feel that Buffalo there
are acting like the local townspeople
yes and that the I think the lines are
the SS and and the crocodile is another
yeah this is it this is the video so it
looks like the lines attacking this one
look at that boom well it's actually not
nearly as high as I thought it was maybe
I'm thinking I'm another one yeah that
would that one's pretty good though I
mean just to see it do that oh you know
what I'm thinking I'm thinking of
relentless enemies that's what I'm
thinking of there's a there's actually a
a documentary about this one particular
strain of lion that there was a
apparently the river split sides or the
river changed its path and it turned
this area into an island and the Lions
had to adapt because the only thing they
could eat was buffalo which is very
difficult to kill you know usually
they're eating antelope and other
smaller things that aren't nearly as
dangerous right
so these Lions developed it became far
larger so the female lions are as large
as a normal male lion and they're
hulking like massive muscles and they're
just enormous it's just an enormous
strain of lion that's exclusively eating
buffalo and there's a whole documentary
it's a National Geographic documentary I
think it's really good but it's just
incredible to see these things walking
around them and they look cartoonish
they're like the Hulk so it's hard to
tell you'd have to compare them to a
regular lion but there's some images of
these things walking around they just
look so much larger than a regular lion
because they just had to adapt and I
would think that if you're running
around like if you're running you got to
think like you're you look like
something that's trying to get away well
made running in that Park yeah no I was
right next to the green vehicle so the
big metal green vehicle was there and
they just said stay close so I was one
door flip away from
launch myself into the it was open top
so I would have been in that vehicle
before they got to me
I hope did you hear about that woman
from she was an editor on the game of
Thrones and she was in one of those
parks and she had a window rolled down
and she they told her keep your windows
rolled up at all times she was trying to
take better photographs and the cat
reached in and grabbed her and pulled
her out of the vehicle and killed her
this is last year and then there's there
a dangerous creature yeah and you just
hope they're running with him yeah well
I they yeah this is that a picture of it
yeah
oh god they have a picture of it
happening is in 2015
oh yeah it just knows my facts the
terrible house fire breath look at that
though that is just so awful that they
actually caught it on camera well she
just thought it was you know she was
safe she's in the car I reached in
grabbed her and pulled her out yeah I
threw out there running around I would
have there was a guy with a gun next to
he's a good shot he said he knew how to
shoot things Abby I played my cards yeah
sometimes you play your cards and well
it must've been kind of exhilarating to
there's something about it right well
there was I was talking to the zebras I
just I went out because obviously there
looked dangerous there's holida non
dangerous ones it was actually the first
day and the that was about math and 10
or 11 or something and I felt you know
what's your over the 10 mark and I've
never got there you know if you've done
the whole South Africa thing and failed
and people were tweeting about me Eddie
is it you know Africa kicked your ass
you know you just go T ia you know this
is Africa where huge fuckin con it's a
big and give Africa is did you tell them
hey man I was on medication man that was
just in that whining so I just had to
come back and I've tried three times to
come back and then I came back and three
times yeah I kept trying to be set the
day that can we get back and do the
thing but it now we won't haven't got
enough money to be able do that that
won't be able to set up with hurricane
Woods and suddenly it's on it's on it's
on and I didn't
couldn't trying they go and so I thought
let's just go get it done and then day
five was in the hospital day six was in
hospital as well for how after two
thirds of the marathon base six had to
go to hospital so it for what well it
kept what happened
they my my trail my doctor had gone away
but my train that thought he thought I
just didn't look good it was you know 35
38 degrees whatever you know and I'm
used to look one oh sorry Fahrenheit
yeah I'd say 110 115 somewhere up there
and I was not used to that and so I was
like I would have made it I feel but he
didn't he felt he wanted me to see an
extra so I saw a nephrologist I didn't
even know what the word meant
nephrologist is a kidney expert I
thought that would be a renal expert
nephrologist and it's very cool black
dude and he was there in South Africa
and East and East London it's called as
the city so it's the big place and he's
going what are you doing who I'm running
for Mandela what thing and okay and he
said it's it's okay we've checked out
your kidneys you're alright your Bloods
it's it's your hydration hydration is
terrible so I'm gonna put three liters
into you and you'll be paying like a
horse all night and I didn't pee once so
yeah you need some Wow and and after
that it got better with and so day 11 I
got into a national this National Park
so there's no one else there just me and
animals and this you know the security
people and whatever with me and it was
kind of beautiful it was just beautiful
and that the Sun was great a sunset
going down there was a rainstorm as well
in the middle of it there were wild
animals out that I haven't I just felt
okay this is n weird place of beauty and
also knowing I'm getting stronger I'm
getting stronger I've gone through the
barrier and I also because I Britt I've
run four marathons then a day off and
then the fifth sixth day I ran two
thirds of matthan so I'd run for 2/3
marathons in six days which is not good
numbers for your head you need five and
five or something in something but four
and 2006 they just didn't work and then
I ran another marathon and I said hang
on I've got to run a marathon and if
there
get these numbers matching up so I
caught up the third method and then it
was always day seven and I've run six
eight math ins in nine days there's
always one day behind so I thought last
day I'll do a double marathon and
that'll be a good climactic end of my
South African thing what what is going
on with your mind when you're doing this
because you you're not listening to any
music and you're in this sort of
meditative state where you're just left
foot right foot left foot right foot
breathe and breathe out
yeah it's I'm saying it's kind of Zen
but it's not in that kind of like I'm
listening to my heartbeat or anything
it's more like I just feel it's just
some sort of beautiful thing of maybe
because that's what we used to be as
humans so maybe I'm reaching back into
some past memory we humans just used to
be out on the plains and we were looking
for honey wild honey or berries or fruit
stuff and and if we could trap something
we know I don't know what I can't quite
work out what it is but I just find it
beautiful and I do know you're getting
vitamin D in you're getting stronger
from that somebody once read my hand I
never do the hand palm reading but I was
at a Halloween party and those are palm
readers I'll try it I'm in a good place
let's read my hand and I can't know what
she said except you need to get out more
outside more and I thought okay I always
felt that I need to be out back doing
stuff because when I was a kid I live
for soccer for football I used to run
like a crazy idiot I love that game and
then from the age of 12 I went to a
school that didn't play it and I never
played sports this is one of my gifts to
myself accident I think from the age of
12 you know your teenage years your
bones really moving and setting and at
that time I was hardly doing anything so
I think I my knees have never gone
people say running in the knees my knees
have not gone I read a whole theory
about the heel of the foot which it
should never you know you know sprinters
or toes we're all running should be on
the toes yes and and I think if the heel
hits that's what it causes the nails
just needs to score and it could be
wrong there's no no that's that's
correct that's not how people were
supposed to run that was actually
changed by Nike
they developed a running shoe with a fat
and they changed the way people run they
change their gait and it's responsible
for a lot of injuries I think I'm
noticing horses if you look for the heel
of a horse it's right up by their bum
because the toes you know the hoof is
the toes and then you go all the way up
that leg and right by the bumbie's
that's the heel it's just an enormous Li
long foot you know that's never gonna
hit the ground and dogs don't like cats
don't do it we are the ones that use
this heel thing obviously - initially -
for walking to make us balance that's
when we went from the chimpanzee gorilla
stage into the yeah but even then I mean
most people if you just give them if
they're barefoot like children for
example like one of the things that I
was reading this book about barefoot
running and how important it is to
develop this and that most people that
have problems from that they're really
having problems because their feet don't
have strong muscles in them because of
the atrophy and the way they were
describing a regular running shoes is
essentially like a cast and that you're
you're so used to being protected in
this cast that everything sort of just
gets mushy yeah inside of it and then
you're also striking down on the heel
which is a very unnatural thing and when
I watched my kids run like my kids were
run with me sometimes and they naturally
know to run on the balls of their feet
that's how they naturally run and when
people start running heel first that's
where all the problems coming it's just
not a normal way for people to run yeah
and I was also initially in South Africa
running on certain Road services where
they just dropped instead of doing a Tom
macadam kind of covering they had just
put rocks obviously some lorry had come
along this truck had just dropped
rocks out of the back just sort of hold
together the mud in in the rainy times
and very uneven surface very hard of the
foot and I was I was doing these very
thin sold running both in sold shoes
what kind of shoes are you running with
well I kept changing them now so I could
the vibrance and then there were vivo
barefoot ones and I'll see you running
him barefoot we've run marathons and
barefoot shoes well initially I was and
then my train it just got so hard that
my toes - look you gotta wear these and
then I left it to them to choose my
physio and he was Olympic level so he
said right these are gonna be better for
that I prefer you not to be in these so
I said okay you tell me what shoes to
wear
I'll take care of reading the relatives
I do remember seeing little South
African children running on the roads
next to me
where they come hey we'll run with you
and they're completely nothing on their
feet and they could deal with these
sharp rocks I thought were really sharp
I was every few steps of great whoa Wow
and they were just as yeah and they
would just they had they were laughing
and running along no because their feet
had built up like it is very this very
house in South Africa yeah this is weird
watch this no it's kind of fun because I
go right back that I ran with flags
that's that's a beautiful thing and I
was running in the Eastern Cape and
they're looking at white guy it's a
white guy doing and this is very rural
area so I let's say more or more that
was in the African national part that
was the rain that was the the day where
the rain stop happened you could see the
Thunder and like that's that that's the
truck there a little left you can see
the thing in this guy just turned up out
of the blue to track me down what do you
give you I just give me a letter saying
thank you for doing stuff but if I ran
with the flag and I said more load to
people and I led to say how are you and
in in cosas cosa this guy seems like
he's wearing women's clothes as well yes
he's wearing it's good and I think he's
a transgender guy Oh with less hair than
me and yeah he's bald but he's a
transient agai now do you take hormones
or anything no no but I could I could
transition but then I've got these boy
Jetix going on I mean it really thinks
it's jeans I think they're gonna find
out how it works but I can't prove that
at the moment but if I transition over
then I'll just be on the other side of
this kind of fence that we give
ourselves and I've decided okay I'm
gender-fluid I'm just gonna have like a
superhero boy mode and girl mode like
the Human Torch can go flame on flame
off so I'm going when do you just do
decide someday today I'm boy mode I can
but I tend to do sort of block periods
now but what I can paint I mean go
mobile I'm doing films dramatic films
I've been boring mode unless I play the
transgenic you have to think about it
not really no but it's easier for me to
be in girl mode because then if I can if
if I can deal with that and you know
some people
stare at you and then I have a
confidence now I carried myself with a
certain confidence they go no he seems
to be quite confident so I just relaxed
about that and I can I can actually I
can control other people's embarrassment
because if they don't know what to do
I'd say hi how are you can I have a cup
of tea oh yeah what we sell to you okay
so I can just relax people by just
chatting to them and then boy made quite
easy for me to do cuz I just it's right
boy versus Pearce and I scrub up quite
well and boy do you have you but you've
given thought to transitioning yep yeah
yeah but you know that part of me wants
to be Steve McQueen in The Great Escape
pony wants to be Elizabeth Taylor in
looking like at home in a cathouse
Afraid of Virginia Woolf
no captain Hot Tin Roof which I just saw
on the plane this thing oh so these the
- looks like gravity and they're going
well I kind of both of them and as a kid
I thought you know can I look more like
Lynn the Steve McQueen because I kind of
fascinated with Steve McQueen and what
he went through to get to where he was
and he was so driven ever you know about
this yes they were great story booth you
know that he was in a film with Paul
Newman and he was like ninety third on
the list of credits somewhere someone up
there likes me if you watch it you can
see him there's a knife fight between
Paul Newman Steve McQueen and he's like
a heavy you know young thug got a heavy
guy but he's just a small player and
then the second firm he's in with him is
towering inferno where there are equal
billing and I think Paul Newman is first
as Steve McQueen is higher if you look
at if you look at the names on the
poster poorni one comes in from the left
so he's name is first and Steve McQueen
is on the right but higher then Paul
Newman that's how they got equal billing
no you know how do you put equal billing
if you're gonna start from the lip
reading from the left right but and if
you remember the film they come out it
is two two guys you say yeah they're
both decent guy yeah these are both
heroes yeah that's a funny thing with
actors right that billing yeah they want
they want to make sure that their name
is read first well that's that's I mean
you've gotta have you guys to do
things I mean so many things need an ego
to do yeah and then hopefully you can
switch dial your ego down when you come
offstage some people can't do that when
it comes to billing Steve if you know
about Steve McQueen and his mum was a
sort of sometime prostitute and had many
than that the house would and its dad
was just never there and he found
himself through a boys boys retreat you
know because he was breaking the law and
they set him off to this place and then
they told him to talk these kids had a
train wild horses and that was one of
the first things he did and he was just
so ambitious and in with your brother in
in maybe us at seven because you know if
you know that film at the beginning
they've got you're brilliant you know
that film well I don't remember it well
it's a maxim said was a great film so
it's got your Brynner with his coloring
and but no hair but such an amazing look
and Steve McQueen at the beginning they
go up to Boot Hill to bury this Indian
guy but Boot Hill and and people are not
allowing it there's racism in the town
and they both go up and they ride
shotgun again to heroes but he was he
was your Brenna was the top guy and
probably seemed okay you see what you
you see what Brenna's done you see what
his caravan is man god he's got all this
stuff here and he just wanted to be the
top guy yeah and and he got there and
it's a beautiful story doesn't end
brilliantly but you know bullet is great
Great Escape is great yeah he's a
fascinating guy Steve McQueen he became
a race car driver likes
yeah well serious race car yeah and he
came second in the one before there's a
documentary on on l'amour L'Amour ways
to 24 hour race and he didn't race in
America which was I think was a 12 hour
race and they came second with a broken
foot he did it you know and he was just
he's kind of a force of nature but he
would also do crazy things I mean really
crazy things which is just not
we died fairly young 250 he died answer
he was singing and drinking yeah I don't
know what it was how do you mean and we
still don't know why people get cancer
my mom died when I when I
when I was six and she was a nurse and
never smoked and she died of bowel
cancer I mean what Jesus what is that
yeah nothing makes sense if you weigh
and unless you put in random into the
world that's my theory of the universe
it's a good theory yeah if you were
trand away and it makes sense after
thirteen point five billion years we've
had about 300 years since the
Enlightenment and I just think we're
lucky enough to be here we've had five
great extinctions and we could have a
sixth or we could look after ourselves
and treat other people as you'd like to
be treated yourself that great rule do
unto others as you'd have done to you
and that if we did if we all did that
tomorrow the world would all work yeah
how do we do that how do we get that
going well it's better than it was
yes it's better than it was even though
it seems kind of hellish if anyone's
pissed off with politics at the moment
track yourself back if you don't look at
politics um any time back in history
it's always been hell it's always been
rubbish it's always freaking all over
the place yeah and I think transparency
as opposed to opacity if that's the word
you know the more transparent things are
the more you can check hey that guy's
lying about that yeah you can work out
what's the line what's not a lie I don't
know if we could have lice detect it on
all the time do we I think it's gonna be
mine reading mine really well I really
think that we're gonna have technology
within the next 50 years that allows
people to definitively understand
whether or not someone's being honest
that would it would make it and I'm sure
someone could get a bad side of that but
it's showing up front you think there's
a lot of good stuff on that yeah someone
could say this is gonna happen though I
want this to happen a lot of people's
scams are gonna fall for these schemes
yeah a Ponzi schemes a pyramid schemes
yeah a lot of that it's gonna fall apart
why the coal Ponzi schemes was a Canasta
Ponzi yeah I think so I think you can
there's like a there's a bunch of those
little terms like Fugazi Jeff Ponzi I
think the gay Z is one that people use
for fake it was there was a limousine
company that was writing bad checks
Fugazi limousine service and it became
like a thing on the East Coast where
this guy's he's a Fugazi cop that means
you're a fake cop
yeah Wow yeah Fugazi became a big word
Charles Ponzi there's a Ponzi leave that
dirtbag look at them happy funny he's
about to leap over his own walking
Roaring Twenties just rapping people of
do we tell people as you're listening
please look up Charles Ponzi um yeah the
pedia and yeah
so - and how did he died he explode
hopefully get hit by a meteor so you are
running for something now what are you
doing I'm gonna go I've said that for
nine years quite consistently I would
like to say that I was going to run in
2020 we had set terms in our politics
like you always had you've had a four
year we arranged into a five year but
then we've gone back to the old system
which is where the Prime Minister the
country can choose when they have an
election and it can be anywhere up to a
day you know the next day after the
election or up to five years later so we
have no idea
so yeah Prime Minister can decide you
know what we'll have another election
yeah in two weeks
yeah and they wouldn't do that for them
but you know like we had a general
action of 15 2015
and then 2017 having been in for only
two years Theresa May was persuaded that
if you'd go for election now you're
gonna win big you can win tons of extra
seats and then we'll be able to do
whatever we want but in fact they lost
seats my lecture so you know sometimes
they grab it sometimes you go in there
fourth is it there's a traditional thing
of going in the fourth year because if
you've got all the economics going
everything's pretty good okay let's go
now we've got 48 but a year to spare but
let's go in the fourth year and we can
because we know we're in a good place
and then you have to allow ethics six
weeks for election campaigning them but
yeah let's we do that I think other
countries do that but in short our
America you go
that's crazy for anything that's what
we've been doing for some time what are
you gonna run for Member of Parliament
for some constituency hopefully in
England would be my think as opposed to
you know the kingdom cuz there's Wales
and Scotland is this a step are you
gonna move further along the line are
you gonna eventually that would be what
Stamford MP then I would Glen the jacks
I don't if you know Glenda Jackson she
did this well all this swath like you
know
and because he went away and then came
back to the creative work that he was
doing to doing films but he went away
for seven years so I will go away for a
period of time and put my career into
hibernation and just do politics just to
produce but you have a set period of
time where you gonna do this and then
afterwards you gonna retire no I I would
do it no set period of time I just gotta
go off and for as long as I can as far
as again and then I come back when I
choose to coast and up no nothing during
that time you could do stand-up if
you're raising money for charity if I'm
raising money for the Labor Party or my
party I think that would be allowable I
think my constituency members wouldn't
mind that I was raising money for
constituency but if I was just doing it
for myself less well you can like books
you'd like to write books in the
Articles it's all a bit hazy but not
sure if you have the same system isn't
it we have a similar system yeah my
friend Doug Stanhope was running for
president briefly kind of as a lark and
realized that he really couldn't do
stand-up because if he did stand-up he
would have to allow equal time for
everyone else who wanted to perform
who also had something like his stand-up
performances were then thought of as
political campaign writing performances
something along those lines it was like
some weird bullshit that he was gonna
have to navigate that he decided to just
back out of it yeah but he was
bullshitting the entire time yeah
I was just doing for fun now I'm gonna
do it I never go in I think a lot of
moderate people don't go I could always
have a radical mother I do radical
things with a moderate message and
already done a number of things like
that in my life so I'm just gonna take
that in and once your goal my goal is to
try and encourage my country in the
world to go in a positive direction I
think I've been saying this politically
that I think this is our last century on
earth or it's our first century I think
next 80 years is for everything we're
going to choose everything here we're
either going to wipe ourselves off the
planet or we're going to make it a fair
world for 7.5 billion people where you
have a right to have a fair world enough
democracy and transparency enough money
to live a life to have a family not
everyone not billions of people living
on one dollar a day or two
today so I think we need to get to there
because then immigration raises its head
your country my country every country in
the world and that's all people moving
around because they haven't got enough
money to live on or they have enough
security because there's a war civil war
and if we could get beyond that and a
lot of those problems drop away so but
and going into politics and talking
about a global vision of the future and
whatever it is slightly it's very
difficult thing to do because people
gonna say oh you've just asked for that
how is that helping this this global
vision but I just thought we seem to be
trying 1930s politics again and in
political areas so I thought well I'm
gonna I'm gonna look for a vision a
positive vision of the future and I know
when I came out as transgender in 85
there was no way I could imagine
anything I didn't know where I was gonna
go I just thought I could need to go out
there need to argue or just discuss at
least try and set up a positive image
version you know cuz you not sure what
age you are but I think you know 51 if
everyone so you know I'm 57 so remember
in the earlier years of our lives it was
just so out there transgender you didn't
talk about it well gay and lesbian
people out with transgender it was like
some crazy out there place what the hell
are you on about and that's what was
what I came in the middle of that yeah
it wasn't it wasn't an easy thing but I
just thought I'm if I'm not gonna do
Special Forces I'll do this civilian
that is a hilarious group of choices
Special Forces or transgender well I did
the the civilian Special Forces but the
NFI on the streets and argue people and
yeah and be and it's all mental isn't it
right if you're if you're in a isn't
anyway the same because people are
shooting bullets Union people are dying
and getting blown up so I know there's a
massive difference there but everything
in the end is psychological and if I
wasn't gonna do that I'm just gonna try
and do this and I would take risks in
these areas of of you know I'll go out
and people say things in street or
whatever they do and do that and then
I'll run the math and stuff so you were
just talking about knowing that you
might have to be in an altercation yeah
I was sure that was gonna happen
teenagers are poison screaming yeah
their little assholes
teenage boys this get shit on me my
friend Eric said it's my friend Eric
crisp he said it to me once he's like
you know because he was dealing with
some teenage boys in his hometown and he
was like the teenage boys are the most
fuckin dangerous animals on the planet
because they have all this testosterone
no one's really giving him any guidance
yet they're sort of just out there wild
and they're trying to outdo each other
one-up each other yeah you know and and
then they're they're cruel they're cruel
and they also are insecure and so one of
the ways to combat that insecurity is to
try to make someone else feel like shit
it's like it's some weird natural
instinct that people have well that it
that is that's what gossipy hatred
gossip is mild hatred and gossip when
you say so and so they're less that you
lower their stamp you lower their
respect or their their value or whatever
by saying something or you could do it
as an action and in doing so you raise
your own yes I say at least we're not
them they are shithead sure less than us
and that is a that is Gaughan's it's the
dawn of time unfortunately well that's
what you see the social currency of
today's like shame climate like shaming
people for this or that or attacking
people for whatever various thing
they're doing trying to get public shame
against people especially people that
haven't really done anything wrong what
they're doing is they're trying to do
that to elevate themselves and they see
someone in the public eye I see someone
who's famous or rich and they're saying
that person's a fucking loser and
they're that you know a sports figures
in perfect example you know like some
super athlete and they drop a ball you
fucking loser you know and they're
they're doing this to sort of maximize
this sort of this like this downfall
this if they see anything that's going
wrong with that person's life and if
they can accentuate that and pump it up
it's somehow or another they think it
elevates them it actually does the
opposite it's terrible for them it's
terrible for everybody but they have
this natural instinct this competitive
instinct to push down the person they
think is elevated to high well I think
that leads it to the trolling thing
online that if you hear from behind a
firewall of no one knows who I am and
and and I remember there was somebody we
have bank notes like your bank notes
they had a woman on the back of one of
our bank notes the Queen's Fair
pictures on the front and then they
changed it up every few years and they
they took the woman who was on the back
of it I think is a 10-pound there was
something they took her off and they
changed it and then there was a campaign
we need to get a woman a woman on the
back of another different note it's not
gonna be that and two people trolled
this I think - and saying you should die
should be raped and I mean hellish stuff
one of them said that'll be a woman who
was actually attacking another bomb that
you think what's going on in your head
where's that coming from but behind this
firewall you can yeah you can go to any
places well so it's almost like they
don't think that a person that they're
attacking online is an actual person
they're not getting the social cues from
them they're not looking them in their
eye yeah I just think it's a piss-poor
way to communicate with people I don't I
don't do any communicating with people
online I don't go back and forth with
people and Twitter or the back-and-forth
I don't I don't comment on things I
don't anything I talked so fucking much
as it is doing this oh my god no I mean
if you don't know how I feel about
things Jesus Christ if you listen to
this goddamn podcast that's me okay I
don't need to comment on other shed
I definitely don't you comment in text
form back and forth with the person and
try to explain myself it's not there's
no benefit in it I said when I was doing
stand-up in the clubs and people might
shout out fuck all of you oh so you know
from the front I know you're drunk
you're an idiot whatever I don't care
and I would not think that person really
knows what they're talking about so I
wouldn't go into a thing I would try and
destroy them with you know you know put
you know my stuff yeah but that's what's
happening online if someone's coming to
you and I used to not worry about it
before and suddenly I was worried about
I thought now actually I'm I'm not
worried it's just literally like
thousands and millions of hecklers yeah
it's really what it is it's a heckling
thing somebody the last what I did was
something I said something and someone
said Eddie is a fuck you and I wrote
back
no fuck you very witty response that's
like five-year-olds as they say yeah
you're a loser
yes exactly yeah you he was the loser
disconnect so stupid you never really
feel good about it even if you get a
real good zinger on somebody just like
what am I doing with my life yeah there
was a yeah my dad's bigger than you at
that but you see that's what was going
on and my dad wasn't terribly tall so I
could never use what did it matter - BAE
yeah and does that really work for him
no he keeps bumping into doorways when
he goes it's much too tall right there
and so you're you guys are dealing with
brexit right yeah we've got a house that
changed the climate of England well it's
made it's made of a toxic very what's
happening over here
you know it's all gone polarized like
with the build the wall stuff yeah yeah
and it's it's one side of the other than
there's no one in the middle mm-hmm in a
way if if you look at secession and
American civil war that was bound to
happen at some time if you go back to
the Constitution 1777 that was worse
having that and I think once you
European Union no one's ever tried from
countries that have hundreds of years of
history to choose to try and learn to
live together work together some shape
or form this tricky thing we're trying
to do it's the hardest thing politically
that's ever been done in the history of
the world and I think that's because I'm
saying the American model with Native
American lands and rolling over manifest
destiny it's a different model there's a
different way of things happen to
different times well yeah a different
time and Native Americans didn't have
this idea of oh we mark this often when
we've registered this land so the idea
that people learn to work together is
it's tricky at some point someone was
going to say I think we'd like to change
this or we'd like to move out so this
fight was bound to happen and so it's
it's very toxic it's I'm not getting to
in right at the center it because you
could just you know probably like you
have on your news broadcast you can
listen to people talking hours and hours
and hours well what do you think about
what do you think of it I mean it
doesn't seem to get anyway right so I've
worked out what my
worldview is this worldview that
everyone's gonna have a fair chance in
life I know that automation is happening
right now so there's going to be a whole
load of people who won't be able to get
jobs because the unskilled labor force
their jobs gonna get automated that's
gonna get tricky so the universal wage
is probably gotta have to come in the
idea universal basic income yeah
basically which everyone's gonna have to
get it's not gonna be a negative thing
it's got to be something okay then you
can go off and you can retrain or you
can live your life and and then there's
artificial intelligence parity by 2050
next 30 years and that's what does that
mean we can't even work out what that
means I think it's gonna get harder for
it gets easier and so I'm gonna just I
always play the long game I always do
the long game so you know I came out and
back in 85 and I just thought well
hopefully it'll get better over time and
now this we're up in 2019 and it's
definitely better than that was but you
can go backwards for but I just I'm
gonna try and shoot for that and the the
everyone have a fair chance in life and
as to brexit where that goes with me you
know positive negative you know I'm
against it so I was just gonna find it I
don't need to think about whether I'm
against it I just know that I want the
younger people are coming online to vote
now they're old enough to vote and they
78% of them want to be part of Europe
and the older people who are passing
away probably 78 percent of them wanted
to be it out of you it's a fear thing
like yeah immigration fear of well
there's a thing you got we have to be
brave and curious rather than fearful
and suspicious and these are the two
ways I think people can go if we're
brave enough we can be curious and say
hi how are you where are you from and
what do you do can we learn for you can
you learn from us I think that is the
way for Humanity to go forward or you
could be fearful and suspicious go what
hang on now back off outside I don't
want to talk to you I don't want to know
about you and that's the fearful and
suspicious way and I think well you have
to be brave and curious otherwise we're
not gonna make it so for us in America
what you're essentially dealing with a
bunch of different countries that speak
a bunch of different languages or as
we're dealing with a bunch of different
states that speak the same language but
it's kind of doesn't make any difference
yeah that's interesting so I thought if
everyone could get the hang because
English has become a like lingua franca
for the world
hasn't made much difference and America
shows you could be completely at
loggerheads whether you're saying the
same words or not I think if you're not
saying the same words it's easier for
people to say who are these people we
hate them because can't understand a
single word they're saying that's easier
but yeah it's an easier way to be
xenophobic / racist on it and I've
always said the xenophobe is just a
racist with a xylophone which I got to
you so we're in a political situation
but it doesn't seem to make the big
difference in the end we have enough
ways of translating and stuff and you
can and most people in most countries
now can reach for English if they need
to you know like some people I think
Putin will always speak in Russian any
any leader of a country will probably
use their own language first of talk to
their own country people first and then
they might throw in something in English
or in an interview so but we can always
tell we can work out from vibe you know
where most people are standing is coming
in so well I think that we're probably
pretty close to some form of viable
translation technology like you know
Google had these Google earbuds yeah the
Google app yeah even the air buds if you
go to Google Translate and you hit the
microphone on there you can just say
hello good afternoon with it and you can
if it's on the French but noncombatant
French so you should I haven't done it
in the field I would like to get out to
somewhere out in the station and
actually I should test it out I'll make
better the Google earbuds I think the
idea is that like if you were talking to
me in French it would translate it
instantaneously to English you know it's
probably a beta version of it now or
like a clunky version of it but
ultimately we're going to have something
that allows you to do that there's also
google lens you could I use that when I
was traveling or you could take the the
camera and you look at it and it
translates yeah I've done languages too
that's on Google Translate amazing so
the Google Translate verbal one at the
moment does line by line so you have to
say a line
Steve a line yeah I mean just think
about what technologies existed 20 years
ago and how more much more advanced they
are now and then add that to translation
and that exponential increase it's
probably gonna we're probably going to
lose a lot of these barriers of
misunderstanding it is interesting I do
think we have
created some amazing positive things
going forward and we tend to bank them
and then we don't get a hit off wow
we've got that man yeah like we can make
coffee quite easily the grinder but then
we just go ok and then we'll find
something else to piss us off right
so trying to keep ourselves happy
because when we're happy enough it's
usually economics when people are happy
enough there's less racism less
vegetables there's less everything's
less yeah so whatever one's runs out of
money they get pissed off I'm totally
understandably but we need to make the
economy of the world work and then it
would be an easier place but what how do
we do that how do you make the economy
of the world yeah no yes that's an easy
line to say and it's very difficult to
work it out but I do think as you
gradually learn to live together as we
gradually come together I mean it's like
in the European unity in America if
certain parts of America or European
Union having a tough time then money
goes to this place is having a tough
time to try and get them back on their
feet so that they can come back in and
start making enough money to be able to
help other parts and that's that's the
idea and that's a logically a model that
should be able to work in the world as
we as we head towards it because you
know we know that wars are terribly
expensive and a lot of people die there
doesn't seem to get anywhere surely we
should have learned this as we go back
so conquer wars of conquest I don't
think they gonna happen anymore quite
like you know the idea we're gonna
invade this thing like the old Lebanon
stuff yes which I think that now it sees
did the last version of that four hours
of conquest and now being replaced by
wars of Defense Wars of Defense or wars
that are hidden behind things you know
under some other Hospital tents yes you
know we need to we've come in to defend
these people but they didn't need
defense oh yeah what was Grenadier man
is instilled at what good Reagan was
doing Crenn eighties we gotta go yelled
attempts to controlled natural resources
yeah well I think that's what a lot of
these are yeah and you know and that is
economic wars are supposed to and then
stopping terrorism in his tracks and
trying to keep these radical terrorists
from taking over certain countries and
strongholds but we really haven't done a
good job of that when there's no
political will you need to do that
then people in their countries
understandably don't like people dying
abroad and then you know was a defense
do they I wonder whether that's kind of
happening that you know the Cystic all
right to defend the idea that the
countries that are better set up should
be able to go in or should be willing to
go in and defend people are having a
really tough time and try to get the
politics to work on that you know if
someone is menacing this year when
Hitler was menacing within his own
country no one did anything like when
Stalin was menacing in his own country
no one it was about 30 million dive in
the snow but no one went in now I said
hey we got a you know whistle blowing
time to go in and help youjust we didn't
go in well we don't even go in for North
Korea I mean we're in this weird
position with North Korea we have this
military dictator who's clearly
oppressing his entire nation and this
was strange to see in 2019 the limited
internet I mean they have like an
intranet they have like their own
version of the Internet where they have
a few websites you could visit yeah
we've got everybody locked down and
extreme poverty extreme hunger like the
the ones that have escaped from North
Korea I mean if they've had these
soldiers and they're malnourished they
have parasites it's it's an awful awful
condition right now if you see when
North Korea does military maneuvers it
looks like the Nazis and you thought
well that Nazi thing well you know I
don't like the Nazis at all but and how
do they get all these people doing that
North Korea could do it well hang on
this is just a thing if you spend all
your time just marching up and down you
can make that happen and Leni
Riefenstahl can go and film it with low
angles and make it look dramatic make it
look fearsome mmm yeah that's what we're
we're better off globally than we were
during World War two right the world is
better off the world is better off in
the Western world is more progressive
and more open-minded since you came out
in 1985 versus in 2019 where we're
sitting here today yeah so different
worlds yeah Iron Man I that's why I'm a
glass is two-thirds full I do think we
are in a better place but there is more
tolerance it does go you know a few
steps forward one step back when and
always yours gonna have
charlottesville Nazi rallies he was
gonna have like weird pockets of racism
and weird thing you're like I can't
fucking believe this is still app yeah
you're gonna have a little those
setbacks I don't know there was
something like in Germany something like
10,000 people were wanting to vote for
the Nazi Party or maybe it's more but
you know that's a country of 80 million
so let's get the perspectives right yeah
it's if certain things happen there on
television you go war and that's
obviously why they do them right to
create an outrage get on television
there you go wow that's it's all over
it's happening everywhere
oh well no it's in this small place yeah
yeah I mean sometimes well the beautiful
things that human beings can do it is
stunning we you know we can we so many
stories are just amazing things that
humans do and then there you put the
horrible things that we can do that goes
on forever yeah if there was a god I
don't believe in a God but if you did
come he says what did you guys do who
are these bastards and you guys well
don't you guys but who are these matter
well I don't you know well they've
always said the Lord works in mysterious
ways
so like the world I know that's five
mysterious yeah maybe seven inspect I
think well bo2 was a test for God
because 60 million people died and at
some point we think okay how many people
need to die before you come and blow
whistle whoa what's the guy with
moustache doing get him off the board
flick him off the board that was my test
fit for God and he didn't come so I
think it's up to us kids well he didn't
come when we mean what they did the
Nazis did was obviously horrific but
what we did when we dropped nuclear
bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki that's
pretty fucking horrific as well no
intervention whatsoever from the big guy
no no he didn't come in I mean he didn't
catch the bomb in midair going Hank
there's kids down there just women down
there there's disease or not soldier was
a city I need to say this and I know I'm
not takin the from the the Japanese I
thought the Nazis were fanatics but the
Japanese at that time took it even more
fanatical you know when the last
Japanese soldier surrendered you know
what year that was
it's like nineteen eighty or 75 I think
it is because they said money from
Google he he was on an Iowa I mean that
I mean how fanatical do you need to
committed still nineteen seventy five
seventy four seventy five says yeah okay
I give up they have an amazing warrior
culture I mean thing we were talking
about martial arts
giant percentage including judo and
jiu-jitsu of martial-arts came from this
one Island I mean right they perfected
so many different martial arts and it's
more the Japanese than any other country
yeah well I mean they I think that ties
did it best
I think the ties developed the best
striking style and then the Japanese
developed the best grappling style but
the Japanese are known as more warlike
that ties you never hear the Thai it
what did they used to in the Thais
figured out the best way to gamble on
fights they figured out the best most
brutal style of fight and that is they
they incorporated a lot of things that
other people didn't with including like
leg kicks and knees and elbows and and
they fought really often like they would
have these like to this day they have
lumpini Stadium and all these different
stadiums in Bangkok they have the
stadium champions and they have matches
on a consistent basis and so these
people are fighting from the time
they're really really young like they're
taking like six and seven year old boys
and they're in girls as well and they're
sending them off to these Thai camps and
teaching them how to fight and then
having them fight you know they'll have
a hundred fights by the time they're 16
Wow
yeah just it's with Thailand it's very
strange because they're so friendly
they're so smiley and friendly yet they
had they developed probably the most
fearsome striking style on the planet I
come and then they've got a transgender
think they've got they've lived in in
the Venn diagrams of what's going on
there that what is intersecting has so
much great food I mean they have so much
cool shit beautiful environment it's a
weird place man Thailand is a weird
place I love it did they feel Apocalypse
Now there because I think they did was
that Vietnam no no I think they did some
of it Vietnam no they did nothing
nothing it was too it was too close
dates wives yeah was it Thailand I bet
he took fucking forever
make sense Philippines oh no that's
right it was Marcos yeah because they
because Marcos kept saying you want the
aircraft back I want the helicopters
back so the helicopters are coming then
they piss off so much this isn't funny
when amar
cause when he that the whole regime went
down all we heard about was some elder
Marcos shoes yes I remember the whole
thing that the Beatles had a bad time
there because they were invited to a
place that they didn't know about and
they all right everybody yeah that's
where they lost to it that was the only
way the back of a truck they're holding
on a tree the back of a truck okay we're
not gonna - why are we playing all these
places you know that's when they started
getting a hold of their we're gonna do
what we want to do rather than yeah so I
mean I'm with you in that I am
ridiculously optimistic
that's good I I think that I think
people I mean I'm even Pinker's logic of
that people sort of look at the the
horrible things that we have today and
say god this world is terrible though
there are definitely terrible aspects
but this is without doubt the greatest
time ever to be alive that we've ever
seen at least in recorded human history
I would agree I think communication is a
giant part of that it is this is this
global world which we thought it's going
to be beautiful thing and then business
I know it's a hellish thing in fact it's
got beautiful aspects and somehow has
but yes as any invention has you know
like Internet
hey you can teach someone how to save
their life on on the Internet oh you can
also teach people how to make a bomb on
you know so yeah I think this is always
the way every next step we get we will
have some positives then we'll hit the
hole the negatives yeah and then we'll
go back to some more positive so yeah
I've got to be able to miss it yeah well
I am an optimistic person like the
otherwise it just wouldn't be here but
this military aspect that I've mentioned
I'm flipping back to that but yeah I do
try and I think I need to do this I
think that's a good thing to do now I
need to do that for ten nine years I've
been saying I'm going to politics so I'm
going next year but it might not be a
general election I try and plan ahead
because I can't like if I randomized
this I just float because a lot of
people do vow this happened and then
that happened and then I was and that
could and it'd be a wonderful life but I
have my River analogy if you're canoeing
down a river if you go at the same speed
as the river they could throw you onto
Rock so you could give you a wonderful
ride it could be anything but it's up to
the river where as I pedal like crazy
sometimes I backpedal like crazy I have
actively backpedal against things and
sometimes usually I'm pedaling faster
than the speed of the river so
try and guide myself you see that
whenever do these canoeing well anyone
driving a boat through a river and when
I look at human interactions objectively
part of me has to consider that there's
a possibility that we need all this
negative in order to reinforce the
positive that there's some component of
human life that desires or or relies
upon negative things to reinforce
positive things that this yin and yang
that we exist under that this this that
we see the horrors of war and horrific
poverty and all these two terrible
things and horrible violence we see this
and it actually serves to reinforce our
desire for positive things and reinforce
and push our society in a more positive
direction I mean I almost think that
this is when we see national tragedies
and shootings and all these different
terrible terrible things there's there's
all this fear and anger and frustration
but there's also action and the action
might mean you might think there's a
lack of action by politicians or a lack
of action by the police or a lack of
action by you know whoever we think
should be responsible for mitigating
these horrible situations that happen
but publicly the the the social fabric
of the world the way people communicate
and interact I think it reinforces our
desire to not have that happen it
reinforces our understanding of peace
and our love of peace and I think that
these these bad things that we see in
our world there almost propel us towards
a better world because human beings are
constantly striving for improvement and
innovation this is one of the things
that we do we want things to be better
and bigger and faster and stronger and
we want our society to be better at all
times we never say this is good let's
keep it just the way it is we never we
never say that so my thought is that
even this even what we're experiencing
in this country we're like it seems at
times that we're almost like on the
brink of civil war between the right and
the left and people are lying on both
sides and conflating people's opinions
and changing people's perspectives in
order to sue
their own narrative that I think that
this ultimately all this angst and you
see it from the outside and you look at
you know what the fuck are we doing I
think it's a natural part of the way
human beings figure out life I shall
respond to sure yeah I I think I think
almost the same as you I would out to
get slightly differently I noticed that
humanity only sometimes gets going and
does things when it's right up against
the wall
you know sometimes that needs these
things to go on if you took a world war
two scenario we went right to the wire
on that and then suddenly we came back
and maybe not even it wasn't even the
political will on that it was just
actually if the Japanese hadn't bombed
Pearl Harbor
we wouldn't you guys we wouldn't have
had you guys in US with us for all that
all the the the forces and the the money
and the almonds of the tanks and the
Sherman's coming in you know we needed
that coming in and without the Russian
people we wouldn't have won World War
two and that was and they were in this
agreement so I can't quite work out
humanity
I do think positive I do think the
negatives you can appreciate the
positives more I do think one thing on
on the brexit bricks hate thing that's
been going on there's a lot of young
people are coming on saying well we're
gonna lose all this stuff the ability we
could travel to Europe without visas we
can work there we could retire there we
can get a health care there all across
Europe that's certainly we cut off and
we are roaming charges are gonna go out
for that all that people are valuing
what what they they could lose a lot
more so yeah the yin and yang the you
can I think I think it's going to go on
this way and also some people once once
we get to a good place I've noticed that
a lot of people will say okay I'm not
gonna be politically active anymore I'm
just gonna carry on doing my life and
other people couldn't sort of things
that I've noticed people will get
activated to get to a result may be an
election result or something or a
referendum or whatever it is and then
they'll they will just back off they get
frustrated I think if I said well they
just think well that's done that's
bagged and in a positive way maybe and
just say but now I'm not even going to
pay attention to what's going on but
things will start rolling backwards so I
think we're going to keep having it like
that maybe the but the percentage
of positive things to negative things
has never changed over all the years
over the last 10,000 years
just as more people in the world doing
more positive things and doing more
negative things maybe humanity hasn't
changed got brain sizes haven't changed
even back to the cavemen days you know
even back the last hundred thousand
years the size of our brains is not
moved so we if you went back to seven
70,000 years ago we would still be able
to have conversations like this even
though we wouldn't have the radios and
the things would be more on our tribe I
think I tribe is better than you're
trying to actually Steve I don't know if
hard tribe is better than that tribe I
just think never there's some good
people that driving this shit isn't that
true we need to maybe trade with them
more we can go to war with them but then
we could die love it and surely could
die and Kenny and Roger
number 22 you know because those
conversations were happening in a
slightly different way I think all the
way back and it way they weren't all
just going me fooled you nice good three
five-year it wasn't that they was maybe
you know millions of years ago but not
seven hundred thousand years ago and we
only started speaking hundred first
years ago so what we've developed since
then I'm fascinated by us as human
beings because we we were just another
animal and now we are we are kind of an
amazing animal
we've romantic beautiful we landed on
the bloody moon you guys landed on the
moon which I as a child thought that we
landed on the moon but in fact you go
further than but they Paulo 11 they kept
it quite open I think Michael Collins in
the command module said this is for the
world and there was this kind of feeling
and Neil Armstrong it is it's a nice
yeah I grabbed hold of it as a kid I was
growing up you know a bit young of me
it's a pretty weird thing to think that
we went from not being able to talk to
space travel in a hundred thousand years
yeah I mean that's what they think right
they think that people didn't have real
language be too genetic I think it's
about a hundred thousand years ago that
that's when I came down and the first
words we said was let's go to the moon
hunter says what's your name Jack okay
Jack good idea but let's put on the back
burner for a moment what do you think
happened it turned us into this do you
ever stop and think about that well I
don't think it's a bloke upstairs
floating in the clouds because they used
to live in the clouds and then we flew
through the clouds and no one ever
mentioned hey he's not in the clouds so
I it's it's a randomizer think you know
I think these
like dinosaurs 165 million years of
those bastards right and all they did
was eat kill eat coal poo and and have
sex that's all I did those four things
four hundred sixty-five million years
we've had three hundred years since the
Enlightenment of human rights and
democracy and stuff like that if we if
we say the great Greeks did a great
thing but really its last religious they
have five million years of that but why
did they come along when we hand all
these creatures in the sea and suddenly
huge ones something happened something
twisted randomizing thing it's I I don't
maybe we'll never know but it has
happened and I just don't think a bloke
did it upstairs with a big belt and now
is the time that you speak and now you
make handbags and now fight was with the
mg42 and now now you know it I just I
just think it happened and we need to
roll with it and try and make humans
work on this planet because then we're
gonna be get a mouth soon and you could
just say at the future if we got it
going on mass that some but the
Marshalls could say we want to vote we
got our own Martian government you sure
you earthlings you know they're gonna
treat us the same way the arrogance
treat the British yeah and then the
Martians come back and attack us the
much you could just see that in some
sort of you know how did you learn the
line or yeah definitely you know I'm I
so I I despair about humanity and I and
I and I celebrate humanity I do this
thing actually which i think is nice I'm
gonna say this this is not because I'm
obviously I'm doing a tour at the moment
here in you us but I'm gonna come out of
this us to on the 75th anniversary of
d-day and I fly to Colin normally be
doing a stand-up tour yeah big it up to
the whole of America are you doing any
dates in LA yeah I'm at the Dolby
Theatre from the 26th to 29th of June
okay
the Dolby that was the Kodak week I want
to come out yes yeah yeah you're from
yeah it's all oh no these are common and
but i go to i go to normandy 75th
anniversary of d-day and i do and they
fought the Battle of Normandy in German
obviously on one side and then French in
English on the other side and so I do
three shows
jerem fish 50 minutes in German and then
I've been 50 minutes in in English than
50 minutes in French and then we have a
buffet and everyone hangs out and eat
and I meet everyone and we all the
German speakers the French or the
English speakers yes I heard that you
know that is incredible that you're
doing stand-up in multiple languages
yeah that's how long did it take you to
learn that well I did school I did
Freddie school for 8 years I did German
it's over 2 years so it's but it was
partly a sort of low-level political
thing I just thought if I'm an English
guy going to France doing in French then
maybe a French kid go well I'm gonna do
in English right and now the Germans
doing is the Russians are doing English
the Spanish everyone's going in English
because you can do a you have a
Hollywood career potentially or be on
television in English you can also tour
the world in English now you can use it
as a as a bridging language we were
talking about Google Translate I know
French kids French kid my friend yes
scene bellows has performed in Helsinki
in Finland and finished kids have been
watching in the second language they've
been watching in English and listening
in English and he's been performing a
French guy performing in English oh they
met and laughed in the second language
which i think is amazing thing but now
you could tour the world that way
hmm so this is the laddie lied so I'm
gonna get a Normandy and it's a
commemoration of that the battle
happened in 75 years again it's a
celebration that now we don't go to war
in those three languages anymore and you
have different 50 minutes for French
different 50 exactly the same ideas but
the words are all of the either German
French I'll give you an example I had I
said Caesar I've told about Julius
Caesar sit Caesar to the everything that
one day he would end up as a salad okay
oh this warlike guy and a French Caesar
escolares jammy imaginated he one day
imagine can enjoy each fini array on
salad one day he would finish up with
the salad in German says I had a Jaeger
dak did he ever think that's an mal that
he one time I was a lot and inverter as
a salad and up would have so you got the
verb right at the end but they still
laugh at the same place but maybe about
half second later split second later
salad salad and that would have so you
have to really have a deep understanding
of how to structure those sentences it's
just practice really you know anything
in life you could do it if you were
taken out of here you speak you don't
speak anything so if they and and
suddenly for some reason you were had to
be in any other cup tile and say say
somebody dropped a big block of heroin
in do you think just as a test as a
social experiment and they fill this all
and you say he's smuggling so you have
to go to Thai prison this is kind of
extreme example anyone and then you'd be
learning within one month you'd have
basic sentence is going anyone who goes
together how sure whether you know if
you work in a restaurant you work any
way you work with no one's giving you
any English coming in you just have to
pick up the words and our survival
instincts would pick them up and then
you might have a strong accent but you'd
be we you me everyone we can do that so
I just again used the art I can set up
this artificial scenario of I have to do
this so I had to learn French so I
started before I did this show this
vundabar shirt was his German table
meaning wonderful and I started it in
French so I jumped I say improvise to
work I don't write anything I just go
under hey chick is what's going on with
chickens chickens checking with a gun
dangerous you don't write your act no I
just improvise it and really and I sort
of workshop it endlessly until it gets
it and then you memorize it well I know
it because I said it last time correct
so in French I was just going leepu
lately put it on dodger
no I'm fully Donald Trump still mmm
shows you know compared thank you record
and listen yeah on every show and never
listen to them aha record on your phone
I do know and also we have a
professional set up server with
sometimes not with the laughter mixed in
I've just been listening back to the
German shows in Berlin and the laughters
very low in the mix so I'm saying these
jokes okay it's anyone laughing that me
oh so it's just from the microphone yeah
there's a the feed there but they had
another one but they've had it mixed low
but yeah you need to have a second
microphone on the audience and just
bring that mix up right or maybe bring
it right out so yeah funny
but I just found doing it in another
language it's a positive thing it sends
out a nice message it's hands across the
water can we learn when you can you
inform us and the comedies I do is sort
of Python ask
monty python types surreal comedy and so
i just need to find that audience in
france that already is in germany that
audience in thailand it was there you
know I've played Katmandu I met a kid
from Katmandu in New York on the street
he said they knew comedian I said yeah
what are you from i from Katmandu Wow
Katmandu a kid from kathmandu what you
doing here well I'm doing I'm a student
but your English is good yeah it's
pretty good yeah well can I do a gig in
Katmandu you think yeah I do yeah so I
said okay that was in 2010 took me seven
years I got there 2017 how was it it was
good unfortunately the local at
Leicester the locals they've had these
couple of earthquakes which see you know
you tend to think oh everyone has
earthquakes and but no they hadn't had
them for ages and something they had to
they bear the earthquake so they were
getting over that so I was mainly aid
workers unfortunately but I was there I
can go back but no it was a nice setup
but I played you know I went all through
and had in Tokyo and I played in Hong
Kong and in Shanghai and had all the the
guys from because you have the people
for the Communist Party come along to
check you out so I'm not going
specifically you know certain things but
anyway you know my stuff is all the
people from the comedy what the
Communist Party
you know the Communist Party yeah you
know Shanghai China comedy party no so
that comings but yeah sorry just meme
angry my word oh so they come and check
you out to make sure you not violating
anything yes you yeah whatever I don't
know I just want to do the cake so but
up but it wasn't like I was gonna change
I have weird stuff about Gandalf talking
to butterflies and and talking about my
ancient kings like Henry the eighth and
and William the Conqueror and stuff so
they probably apparently they stayed
they stay they normally disappear after
a while but anyway so it's it's good to
get out and you know either as you said
play the world sees you travel broadens
the mind
yeah I don't play very many played in
Australia in England I've done gigs in
Stockholm and Northern Ireland Dublin
few other places in Europe but most of
the time when I go on vacation I just go
on vacation I just go to experience it
just to have fun
so just to be there um so you have you
never written your act down no I
couldn't I see I used to do sketch
comedy like like a pop multi Piper thing
and I wrote those and then I was doing a
street full of for four years and that's
very unwritten there's no that's very
difficult to write so it's difficult to
actually develop material for that so
did that for four years so I got into
this thing of performing like how so
what would you do we we were double act
initially me and my partner Rob and we
did weird things like escaping from a
woolly jumper he just returned to ask
Willy jumper yes that a woolly cardigan
we really pull over
you can't pull over okay yeah I guess
wetter yes weather yeah so instead of a
straitjacket he said we'd take this
fully sweat because think it's wet just
ridiculous yeah ridiculous making a bowl
of cornflakes disappear
because yeah so it's best to go this is
even say this guys are crazy they plan
when they give us five spoons and what
it was the words again these people are
insane
this is awful then we did sword fighting
that was good because I directed three
musketeers at University and so we were
doing showing you how to kill someone
when drunk were then when you really do
it you know all these different moves so
that was quite fun that I went solo and
I was doing escapology from chains and
ropes and then from a five-foot unicycle
from a pair of manacles escapology mean
escape ology as the real thing is that
what the apology you guys really call it
that yeah what do you call all things a
name for it never even heard of that I
think it Google will tell us Thursday
escape artists I know there's a skate
bosses eschatology does it exist was his
word there's a thing called
escapology live escape games world
escape rooms and there's a bunch of them
I don't know if it's the same thing as
escape room no those are escape room
yeah yeah yeah well see apology should
be a Wiccan art form it sounds like it's
not real off is a craft
well no Houdini was an artist of that I
was a I was a jobbing crafting but
escaping from restraint oh yeah
there you go steel boxes barrels bag
things so I was escaping from ropes and
chains and do you made a conscious
decision to do this like on the street
like this is yeah you're developing yeah
that was developing because I couldn't
get my sketch comedy thing wasn't going
like that there's a thing called the end
a festival we have Scotland yeah you
know yeah so I did twelve of those in
the ends right before I took off so I
did three doing sketch and then about
four doing Street but on the street you
have this freedom when you know the
freedom when things are working a bit
and and it's really kind of feral no
one's checking you out no one knows what
you do you're just on the street right
so I was useless at this and then I
developed a confidence a gut confidence
you know that the stomach's really
important probably isn't fighting as
well there's something that comes out of
it
there's a confidence center in the
stomach really yeah there's something
about stuff you look into it with
Fighting's you neurons right it's like
there's something everything joins there
it there's something to do with it
anyway I felt I developed this
confidence on my own to go and stand on
if you ever seen heard the film my fair
lady or seen the film Eliza Doolittle
that is set on cover gun it's a massive
Piazza massive square Washington Square
Park in New York was the quote another
straight flowing place so it's a big
open place and I could stand up there on
my own and talk to no one and build up
an audience I would set out these tea
cozies which a little animal tea cozies
ducks and hamsters that with weird
things things that just looked like
animals and put them on the floor and
people thought this guy's crazy and then
I'd start talking and they'll be
literally no one there sometimes and I'd
say good afternoon I'm gonna do a show
welcome to the invisible audience very
nice to have you here and I had this
confidence if I just kept talking of it
like you know in your podcast here you
know you give talk you go on yeah it has
some visible people here as well this is
Jack and Kenyon's good and I would just
go on and on until I built up about 20
people then I could start the show and
then we get into it and if you're doing
an escapology show in the end you're
gonna get out you've worked out having
it out and so there will be a definite
end and then you can say now don't go
and please can you give me some money so
that's how I am my living but it did
that's the ninja training of performing
because I learned to perform when people
didn't even want to see
me right now there's normally they've
come into a room and Lisa go okay who is
this guy don't know but we're in the
room so let's drink a beer and watch but
if they're on the street they don't have
to watch they can just walk off and they
often did so it was a tough I have a I
lost all my confidence on the street in
fact in fact I there's a thing army does
this you know break you down build you
back up the Marines bring you then build
you back up they also in in in drama
school they break you down build you
back this kind of idea I accidentally
broke myself down and built myself back
up on the streets of London so wow it's
kind of beautiful that's why I was
creatively born this new version that
had this thing okay we're gonna talk
about chickens how many chickens it take
to change a light bulb well quite a lot
really because you know they can't and
unless I had a friend with maybe dog
could help them or they could rig up
something you know I just stuff and if
it didn't hit a punch line I didn't care
I just carried on just kept going and
then the confidence things he just talks
for hours so if you release a special
and you've you've released calmly
specials before yeah how do you develop
new material once that specials been
released I will do work in progress
shows so which I took from Lily Tomlin
who did a lot of work approaches and
then she did her show on Broadway I
think and I thought because I used to do
the old tour and I used to tour Toto
until the end we'd film it and I'd begin
the next tour with the old tour and just
keep improvising in the show mm-hmm
because I'd only improvise on stage and
I would build up but by the end of the
next two it would be a different show
but that didn't seem to work for people
because they said we want a completely
new show so now I do this WIP shows
work-in-progress shows and I will go on
stage and muck about just talking about
chickens or banjos or do you have a
structure when you start like say if
it's the day after your specials done
and now you have to work on a whole new
special you're doing a work-in-progress
show first do you how do you develop it
we start with my life I did it once and
I just say okay let's go through my life
and so when I was so you may not know I
went I was living in Northern Ireland
they were born yeah I would go through
so I've done this where I went trolled
through my life I need some sort of
structure otherwise I'm stuck I also
found that one side recorded the show
like a last tour force-majeure I taught
for five years
because I just found there were no rules
on touring I could just keep going back
and I did 45 countries so I could just
keep on going and and I found there were
certain things I've developed after we'd
recorded it that we're interesting and
worth keeping so I said okay well that's
not in the old show I'm gonna pull that
and start off the new show with that
little bit which is that little piece of
material which is fun about and I was
trading on a matter then dog dogs were
woofing at me
you know how ramparts of house where dog
was looking at me and this is in the
show now and I suddenly thought for the
first time ever because dogs have woof
to people oh that yes it's beginning of
time I thought what is the dog actually
trying to say if the dog had Fox p2
injected into him so he could suddenly
talk what would he say to me what is
that woof woof well what does that mean
and so it goes into he's basically
saying assassins I know I'm a dog it's
my job get a gun all dogs are very sure
you've never heard an uninsured Joe
dying in your life when they're barking
they're sure they are absolutely sure
that it's assassin it's not the postman
it's not there's a guy with a hamster
outside assassins are here alarm alarm
danger Will Robinson why have you never
written anything down
well I found initially I started running
right stand up but I would go I was
trying to type it all write it so if you
go into a super I'm basically I'm just
like sick so I'm slowly supermarket and
they're there I just thought I couldn't
I couldn't write I seem to be faster if
I was just add living it so you got a
supermarket this guy there and you know
and sure it's fruit you go in this fruit
fruit fruit fruit fruit and I found that
if I just did it by finding it with the
words and there's fruit and some fur and
you special squeeze it aren't you and so
I just think all the things I could
think about fruit so why is it fruit
there why not toilet paper you're never
going to supermarket and toilet paper
there because they'd say well that's a
pool shop you know you have to go
there's a fresh shop we've got fresh
fruit here so we're very fresh okay
that's why the fruit fruits right at the
front and you've got to squeeze it but
how much do you squeeze it and how do
you know it's that right pressure to
squeeze it and what if it explodes and
so I would just keep chatting if it
didn't work you just move on and
that's how I developed this very
conversational star that I have which
people say it's supposed to be
improvisation it's nice it's just I am
I'm always ready to improvise at any
point some people if you write a thing
you say well that is how that piece goes
and it's locked in mm-hmm but if you
improvise a thing I've noticed I came up
with this thing of molten material when
you first create a new idea that's it
it's working it's very open in life like
Quicksilver like mercury and then you
could add another bit another bit
another bit and you could have a bit
once you put it into a pan it becomes
locked down it becomes like a prayer and
you can lose the joy of it it becomes a
recitation and I thought so don't ever
have it locked down keep it open keep it
always loose so that every time you say
it you're saying it a bit differently
and that's the style I've developed and
so I can improvise at any point in the
show I can just stop it and go what are
wars why have we got walls walls other
people you know most animals in the
world don't have walls but we've got
walls and they're that good
how is it you know it's raining they
don't have walls they're okay I just
wonder about wars is it okay don't talk
about walls I love every game so if I
don't get anything out of it I get jokes
on the way out I get laughs on the way
out hmm if I don't get in the way in so
that's the technique I've developed
now when you say dyslexic so if you read
something what do you see I read I see
it but I get word blindness we read
blindness I just see other words long
words I I couldn't wrap to my lashes
took me a ages to say let alone to spell
I just find it I sub vocalize so in my
head I'm going almost say that and you
know when your kids they actually read
it out loud
mm-hmm and I'm not reading out loud but
I'm saying it in my head and other
people that they can do a page you know
they do this speed reading and they just
you shouldn't shouldn't and they could
just take your whole pages and it's
stunning I can't I don't understand that
either that's that's tricky so my
spelling was cat with a case ceiling
with an air Spade logical spelling
mm-hmm
my writing is all over the place bigger
letters smaller letters bigger letters
and they've tested me and they said I'm
severely eighty
to a typically dyslexic hmm so I have a
huge mental map memory I can hold a lot
of things in the memory in my head so
that's just sort of a permanent
distinction like you just this is just
who you are there's no way to fix that
it seems so I haven't heard of anyone
this coming out of dyslexia saying now I
can read much faster now I can do things
I just think you're stuck with that but
it means you think sideways and I think
a lot of creative people are dyslexic
hmm I think sideways yeah
so you see clouds you see a line in the
clouds you see puffs there's a train
going through the sky you know it's it's
a creative thing juxtaposing things on
your wall you have Jackson Polk thing
which is they don't lead from one to the
other that can be fighting right against
it or completely bonkers or ahead of it
just looking at here in the room you
know and linking things together I think
creativity we're trying always trying to
throw ourselves by in comedy by
something that's weird and opposite and
funny Cesar you should you know I'm
going for the salad line when I said
that sees a deer with a good salad and
then people seems to make people offer
go uh a Caesar salad and this guy was
murdered murdered a million Gaulish
people you know and he ends up as a
salad it's not cardiac Napoleon gets a
cognac or brandy but he's a salad what's
that about so um yeah this is my
dyslexic tracks Bay I think you get
dealt these cards when you're born
whatever genetic cars they are and the
that the art of life is to play your
cards as well as you can in the art of
comedy is to relay your life in a
humorous way very right and that's your
own unique fingerprint yeah as you know
if we all have experienced a well I seem
like another comedian well talk about
your own life and your own perspective
it's got to be different to the next
person's because no two people are the
same is that what you enjoyed the most
there what the stand-up yeah no dramatic
films I probably enjoy the most because
I wanted to do that when I was a kid I
discovered that films which existed I
broke into Pinewood Studios one of our
big studios when I was fifteen broke in
yeah like yeah illegally yeah yeah got
it
yeah well I I was watching a film Battle
of Britain and at the end it says filmed
on
locations in Spain and had a Pinewood
Studios Iver Heath Bucks and 70s and
they remember we didn't have videos we
couldn't freeze things though you have
to scribble things down so I was
scribbling down stuff off the end of
films and I said my mysterious have his
back okay what is that bucks okay bucks
a shot for Buckinghamshire that's a play
Iver Heath must be a town it's a weird
name turn city village them to be a
village or town so I got a map of the
United Kingdom which has alphabetically
every town and village and city they're
going listed alphabetically and I went
all the way down and IRA he's but okay
that's where it is so I took a train for
my the south coast of England up to
London a tube train an underground train
that too place called Oxbridge than a
bus to this this roundabout and I got
off I said there's Pinewood Studios they
said it's about half a mile down that
road so I marched down the road and I go
to the big gabled entrance where all the
big stars would come in and I went up
and I haven't got this bit worked out so
I went up and I said um I'm gonna I'm
gonna be in films can I come in please
it's what I'm gonna I'm gonna make I got
I want to be an actor can I come in just
piss off kids now that it's just what
and he just told me to piss off and I
thought no I've come miles this is big
so I thought there must be another way
in so I went up and there was another
entrance that was near it but it wasn't
the main star entrance it was just the
kind of more lorry enters the truck
entrance the bringing stuff in and I saw
people going in and out there was a
drawbridge a bit like where Eagles dare
the film either there's someone on the
gate and some people was showing them
passes and stuff and other people just
walking in so I thought okay you've
gotta had the confidence to walk in so I
did the 16 15 16 year old confidence and
I've just marched in and something I was
through and I was in I was in the poster
yeah so then in its people broke in the
universal I broke into and the thing he
got a career going pretty immediately I
didn't get nothing go 15 I know his well
as you expect was gonna happen what was
your anticipation
well anticipation was as I've said in a
piece of standard that I because I had
to walk at a certain speed if you
a certain speed I thought no one's gonna
stop you so you can't creep around
looking once this because they said what
are you doing here you know I just
thought in fact it's kind of loose
inside studios and no one really knows
what everyone else is doing so you can
actually creeper head up a bit but I
wove ran at certain speed and I sort of
March I was marching down streets and up
hours and past studios and and I was
hoping someone go hey you kids yeah well
you're marching around yeah we're doing
the film called the marching around kids
lead kid is just exploded can you
continue much yeah I can march around
can you say words I can string a few
words together or I leave I marched out
we're done here I've watched around for
two hours and I March that I have since
film twice or three times in Pinewood
though and I'm gonna I want to do and
when every time I go back and I'm
actually filming that guy this is what
and I just walk it face slow speeds down
streets knowing that anyone could stop
me and I go I'm just filming around the
corner
it's yeah it's um so I love films and I
just finished my first film six minutes
to midnight that I've co-written and
produced in them it's set in just
probability of World War two the word I
grew up this little seaside town like
America has seaside towns well as well
from the old days when people used to go
to seaside towns before they all went to
the hot countries and it's called
Excellencies near hastings brighton a
south coast appeal and there were 26
schools there for some reason 26 schools
it was linked up there was an old
Delaware that had set the place up any
one of these things new and one of them
had young girls german girls who were
linked to the Nazi High Command and they
were over to learn English and make
friends and be ambassadors and because
there was obviously fascism in Germany
and there were fascism Britain and they
were making friends and and that was the
idea there was going to be Hitler had
this idea of linking out with British
and taking everyone on and which some
people will in Britain more Fords and
obviously a lot of us were against and
so it set around this girl school and I
was shown the badge the Blazer badges
all the girls had a blah
blue blazer and I had a badge and it had
the name of the school or Gustav
Victoria College at Bexhill on C and at
the top it has a British flag and then
the Nazi swastika next to it and I
thought holy cow I've just never seen
those two flags right next to each other
on the same badge so I thought there's a
film in that so we've made a film Wow
Judi Dench is in it Jim Broadbent both
Oscar winners and myself and when will
that be released rolling it out from the
end of this year from fall is your
autumn fall this year so your love of
acting and creating films that's that's
your primary even Trump stand up I do
love stand up and I could do that
whatever that trumped is still word I
know isn't it weird yeah it's a weird
that must he must love that that word
exists that Trump actually means to
one-up and better I'm not even gonna go
there it's crazy right yeah it also
means making tricks you Trump things and
you can make tricks oh really
yeah I didn't know that yeah we have
tricks and cards and she how many tricks
have you got that was tricky Dicky Nixon
so that's a another person who did one
or two lies and untruth yeah down yeah
so anyway yes it's I love I do love
stand up it well I was never planned to
be a stand-up I was gonna be a sketch
comedian comedy well I was gonna be an
actor then I thought I can't do in my
teenage years I had no sexual self
confidence the the transgender thing
didn't play a part I just I was playing
football to soccer up till 13 so I was
killed hey am i right about guy kind of
fast
athletics whatever then I go to a school
I'm nothing and there's no girls here
and I can't do this in the world body's
changing all that and I just lost all my
confidence and I just thought I come and
I was quite small so at school it was
all about tall kids you play the
romantic lead small kids you are the
slave and the servant so I thought okay
forget this I'll do comedy I'll do the
comedy cuz I love the comedy yeah and
Monty Python I thought okay how do the
darling I love you you're made out of
cheese I have my knees on fire you know
I just make up rubbish and I thought
okay that's easier so I did that and it
wouldn't take off my career just
wouldn't you know left school dropped
out of university couldn't get it going
and by the time it got going when I was
about 30 I thought
I'm now gonna hold on to this comedy and
start doing drama at the same time so
I've run these parallel things and I'm
going to be on Broadway the beginning in
the next year it was Afraid of Virginia
Woolf with Laurie Metcalf oh wow Scott
Rudin production so oh interesting house
is a movie yeah great movie as I said
I'm doing Who's Afraid of Elizabeth
Taylor and Richard Burton and yeah
that's oh that's an amazing production
you know I'm performing with Judi Dench
in films and a Stephen Frears film
Victorian Abdul so I'm getting great
drama roles now I've pushed a long time
to do that but normally few do comedy
they won't let you do drugs he did drama
you don't review comedy that's sort of
breaking down though right
Steve Carell Steve Carell he has he has
moved it if he does I'm not sure if he's
doing the comedies too much anymore but
exactly where Steve Carell is gone
John Lithgow also say he was someone who
was very dramatic career but then you
did federal for the Sun was he beautiful
in and he was nominated every year and
won two Emmys and no one hit six times
just fantastic work yeah I was on
Newsradio at the same time I was also
over in the same network right yeah yeah
his stuff was he's great yeah it's great
actor yeah I was stunning you know he
played them Churchill in the crown with
Churchill a darker side of church other
people don't know about which I meant
well he's a guy that really has a love
of theater a love of performing when he
talks about it you could see like this
this goosebumps raised and you just you
could see is he gets excited yes III get
half so you feel that I mean played such
a range okay he's playing evil you just
think this guy's so evil when he's
playing in the character in the the in
the federal for the son it's just a
beautiful I watched you can't really for
somebody who can't I couldn't download
it in Britain but I found a place I
could find it so I'm on the second I've
watched every single episode and now
going through the second time so it's
just beautiful stuff so when you're you
got into stand-up comedy when you first
started doing that what is the scene
like in England as it was there comedy
clubs where you could go to an open mic
night wait how do you we were copying
you guys I think Lenny Bruce set up the
more alternate
version because I still think in America
it's it's always stayed kind of Main
Street but Lenny Bush was definitely
doing alternative knows you're a lot of
Lenny I love that yeah you know and I
played them on stage and that was a
wonderful thing where did you play him
in well Lenny you know the film was from
a stage that Dustin Hoffman a film that
was a stage play Dustin Hoffman was
fantastic movie he was so close and the
guy who plays him in the marvelous mrs.
Mazal that's very good as well I know
that's fair to say because I'm watching
that I'm thinking okay now I've gone
through the club's myself but I did mine
in the eighties and the nineties that's
in this 50s Wow and I sort of take
myself there then there's Lenny there
and I think he I know Lenny and I play
them I used to die oh my god that's me
tell you that but I was I was doing the
stand-up I see that's why I could die I
put that together now that was and I
call him the Jesus crisis of comedy
because as a Jewish guy he died for us
and died for us to give us the freedom
of speech yeah he died for freedom of
speech because there in the end there Oh
heroin - I know but - makes you forget
that you shouldn't have played in it -
yeah he getting a measure that we could
say what we wanted to ask them yeah the
missus Mazal thing makes it a little
it's a little homogenized like him like
in even his struggle it's almost like
it's no big deal
are you are you in the latest season is
yes is it three or two - well three
hasn't released yet they're filming it
right now both of them it's really good
yeah it's it's not accurate like
historically it's way off the mark
there's no woman who was talking like
that back then it wasn't there was no
missus Mazal like now I really liked it
and it's interesting she yeah
like nor McDonald got mad about it he's
like yeah there was no woman like that
back then
I would say that she there's no a
there's a quickie but that's the fucking
show man the Hulk's not really their guy
who becomes the Hulk now enjoy it I
really like no matter but I love him
yeah I I didn't have was a she was
swearing like a like a soldier on stage
very quickly very quickly which that was
I found
don't know how she ramped into that and
then she dropped out of it it was that
was something was right and then she
went to France and I went up so and and
did stand up that someone was
translating that was weird I have done
it in French and I don't think I
could've got that I don't know why they
that seems just seem to be slightly
shouting it's not jumping a shot going
up the shark swimming around
it was artistic interpretation it wasn't
realistic but it was still it was that's
a person who makes a living doing
stand-up comedy I was willing to let
that suspension of disbelief I like the
the sexual relationship is always coming
back the husband's almost coming back
into the frame yeah and his and his
fight their kids yeah but now I did
watch it i binge watch that's what I'm
doing that I just sit down and I just
watched everything yeah and then I move
but yeah Lenny how do we get them to
Lenny we're talking about something else
but anyway you know it's great it was
great playing Lenny but oh yes I was
doing the stand-ups and I was just told
by director Peter Hall
I'll leave the stand up to you so I had
no direction on it so I just did it as
close as I could to how Lenny would have
done it mm-hmm did you listen to a lot
of recordings I did that it's very
difficult for British kids oh maybe even
math and kids of today - no because he's
doing a lot of hipster refugees a lot of
you know the Sophie Tucker references
and there's a there's a lawrence welk is
it the welch well yeah we don't know
those guys so what he was doing is cause
there's Sophie tuck and they're going I
could look up so I had to look up the
some of the punch lines or that number
the references because you without the
references you can't get it this is a
trick I do in universal humor that I
take either huge references or explain
my references so that you know Caesar
everyone probably knows about Caesar and
if they don't well I yeah anyway well as
good as Lenny was it's really hard for
people to listen in that comedy today it
doesn't necessarily trance it doesn't
transfer well you talk about Nixon and
you know Nixon is notice this is a Vice
President Nixon this yes haizen house
Nixon yeah thing so he I worked out that
all my stuff is non dateable is null I
don't do any topical stuff I don't do
partly political stuff
so you should not date I do historical
stuff because that never dates you know
right Caesar is not gonna come back now
Jesus changed his whole thing is much
nicer though he's come back from the
dead and he's cleaned up his act so I've
tried to do that and python did this as
well you do stuff it just doesn't really
date most of it doesn't date which is a
handy thing so the stuff goes yeah much
stand-up does and it's also the the
outer the the culture so significantly
different between the late 50s and 60s
where Lenny Bruce was sort of starting
out and making his mark versus today
it's like the things that were naughty
back then the things that he could say
that were controversial there were
nothing today they're literally an it's
a non controversy well there was one
that still was was when he said how many
people using the N word the s working
they just went to all how many the way
and I did this I used to do that on
stage every night that was still as
striking tense yeah yeah but the the
sentiment behind it was that these words
only have power because I give them
forbidden yeah I mean if he could use
him again again again and for the gay
community they'd taken the word queer
they reclaimed that yes so it doesn't
have the force anymore and that is a
truth he spoke he was a true analysis
that he did yeah yeah it was
we had some still Joe there was a
unfortunately accidentally a friend of
mine stole one of his jokes didn't know
he actually just thought of the same
premise yeah and he was that the premise
was that uh homosexuality in some place
is illegal and what do they do if they
catch you well they lock you up in jail
with a bunch of men who wanna have sex
with you like and that was Lenny Bruce's
line they like dig homosexuality is
illegal right so what do they do they
put you in jail with a bunch of men will
have sex with you you know like that was
his whole like and like that still would
work today like if there was a place
where homosexuality was illegal today
and you did that joke it's a good joke
it's like setup punchline it's all right
there yeah I let me was ahead of it and
you know his early stuff was more
mainstream yeah ever believe Oh doing
way way me same as Carlin you listen to
Carlin's really stuffed I've heard of
had
yes I got it was like like it's like a
typical Jack Paar Tonight Show set it
was all like really like down the middle
squeaky clean and he wore suits and he
was a clean-cut you're seeing Carl in
the early days I think I've seen once
I've yeah I dunno there was one there
was high in a suit there was a change
well Lenny had a complete change and
that thing in the film where he says
you'll never play here and what's the
area in upstate New York Catskill
Catskills you know what I fled the
Catskills yeah and I remember when I
watched it first I thought oh that's a
terrible thing to have but now that I
know what that was it was a certain belt
of you know how you're gonna think that
that's George Carlin Wow
play a little bit of this it's crazy for
the Merv Griffin Show we never see how
the Indians prepare how awful it is
that is that sort of style you know he
had that I mean that's what you did back
then this is the Merv Griffin Show I
mean it really didn't have any options
that's how you perform yeah yeah
otherwise they wouldn't let your own yes
she did he change on a dime did he get
arrested a bunch of times you know and
he became marijuana enthusiasts and you
know started it just just the times
changed yeah and I think you can only
sit back and observe for so long before
you start commenting on things and then
he shifted and he became and I think he
was also experiencing prior like prior
of course was I think Lenny Bruce was
the original yeah but Pryor was the one
who made it insanely personal and he was
insanely vulnerable on stage and also he
had a point to a lot of the things he
was stealing I mean I think if there's a
great I don't think there's a greatest
stand-up of all time but if there is it
might be prior you know that he just he
had this perspective that was just
wholly individually wholly him it's up
ten years later yeah yeah that's the big
really does change it and they're happy
yeah I mean he was a look at him he's
got like a fucking Steve Jobs outfit on
now
yeah he became he became a you know they
hippie hair got longer yeah yeah
Richard Pryor I think Richard Pryor is
for me he was cited this I had this base
of Monty Python which is what I was
going to do and then I had Richard Pryor
and Billy Connolly Scottish comedian
buddy coming those two Billy talks too
just so relaxed me swing the large
groups of people and well Richard was
doing it was the acting out of all the
characters thing that was the one of
nothing that's what I do agree and the
dog says the dog is Duchess come on in
hey come on two burglars yeah yeah you
shall not leave yeah Dobermans yeah
playing these these different voices and
characters and what he could do and that
was just that was stunning to me yeah he
was something special
look at him back in 82 that's that's
literally him
like on the wall back there a mugshot
that's the same era could be that could
every in that night yeah might have been
that night there's some fantastic
recordings that I don't know where they
are now but they used to be able to buy
them I bought them at a truck stop and
they were from red foxes comedy club and
they were cassette tapes and I I was on
ER I was doing a road gig and I think I
found them I bought a bunch of them and
these recordings were they just said set
up a tape recorder and he was doing
these random sets at red foxes comedy
club and it was a lot of experimenting a
lot of ad-libbing a lot of means clearly
hi on stage I mean he would get go on
stage hi a lot and we just ramble about
stuff and they would you would see these
bits forming and coming out of that and
then some of those bits eventually would
be on some of his more famous albums
later there's great great stuff just to
see this guy who was just so if you go
if you go from you know your traditional
stand-up comedian from 1960 like you
were seeing George Carlin on stage -
what Pryor was doing in the 70s this is
so different so radically radically
different he took it to a different
place you're talking about the scene in
Britain we're interesting we don't
really have much of a film industry we
don't have it as quite said you know go
see this huge in in America compared to
what we have we have a quite a good TV
industry so but we tour like crazy so
there's lots of tours in 100 CDs 500 to
2,000 see to 2005 2000 series that goes
on like endlessly all the time way more
than used to before so that and there's
there's lots of clubs and they were a
lot of them will just run that Bubber
pub type clubs so I believe the clubs in
America which much more set up there was
a bar thing the system people come out
do the drinks and and and it was quite a
cash outlay had to get this club going
and it would be you know most nights of
the week we'd have it one night a week
it'd just be a function room in a pub
that existed for maybe hundreds and
hundreds of years because all these pubs
used to be taverns drinking
and it wasn't used and they said some
guy would say hey I'll run a club up
here I'll take the door money you take
the bar money and that was the deal so a
lot of amateurs running it so we had
lots of club we had that 60 70 80 clubs
in London that you could you could zip
around that many yeah it was a
ridiculous amount and so for me what the
Beatles had with with playing in Germany
I had with London and we all had with
playing in London you could do four in
the night five we're four and a night
quite quite easily on the fighters and
Saturday you just jump in taxis and sit
between different like they do in New
York yeah yeah but it was just so many
clubs oh wow so it was beautiful I think
it's less now but it's there's lots of
open mike max now and so many people
wanted to get into it you can create
there's no top to the career now we're
playing you know people are playing an
arena I started doing arena tours I'm
now doing more theaters on this one my
audience has got a bit older but anyway
jumping between the two like playing
Hollywood Bowl here I you know in in LA
that's such a beautiful thing to play
and it's the Greeks got it right the
left of rolls down the hill yeah played
it twice now and it's just gorgeous yeah
I've never played there but I've been
there for a few times for a few
different things I saw Annie there and I
saw the what is it oh the nightmare
before Halloween yeah you saw Annie the
musical yeah they do the musical there
they do a version of it and they do the
nightmare before Halloween where they
play them they play the movie and then
they have a symphony and the symphony
and anything at me do kind of have kids
you need to say that because if I didn't
enjoy it
alright I'm bored out of my fucking mind
no I was that was hi I'm just gonna
leave that no sir and he's your chemical
it always comes yeah I like everything I
like a lot of things that you would
think you wouldn't like you know that
for the people of LA or people at the
world I believe that the Hollywood Bowl
is a la Park so you can actually go up
there and have your sandwiches and yeah
um you want yeah she's a beautiful thing
I'd do that I can't drive up there cuz
it looks like don't come in here there's
berries and stuff but no you can pack up
and go in it's a park it's still a park
I love that space it's just good and I
knew that Monty Python I played there so
I thought I gotta play
well it's beautiful too because it's all
outdoors and you know la has such
amazing weather and you look around you
see the houses in the distance it's like
this it's a special little spot it's
beautiful yeah I don't Dave Chappelle's
done some gigs there I think Chris Rock
did a gig there that's a must be a fun
place to perform too yeah it's just it
works that amphitheater thing I think it
was the Greek I came out democracy and
amphitheaters and yeah do you still go
to clubs at all I don't so much I was
reading the definitive thing on Robin
Williams and you know how he would jump
into clubs and do stuff and go am i I
doesn't that doesn't really work for my
stuff I tend to get a small I can differ
club like for the work-in-progress shows
I was doing I was taking I was they they
have the Al Murray Club in in Islington
no angel in London sorta north/northeast
lemma and they had you know show going
on at six one at seven eight you know
and I would take an hour of that and
just do that again again again so I'll
take an hour and I'll go out for an hour
and workshop the show and mm-hm as
opposed to coming on doing 15 minutes on
a off the top my head cuz I find that if
I find completely going scattergun just
trying to find funny that doesn't really
help me I need to keep crafting the
stuff cuz I'm like yeah sure yeah and I
also don't need if it's a if it's just
if it's a comedy club they want it
faster they want a quicker when it's
someone you know and I'm not looking to
hit the gags I'm just looking to find
things and have the space to stop and go
what is it about cheese
right right why is it got to easiness
you know I just want to Waffle around
until I go okay that that's a good but
I'll keep that pit right do you ever
feel like like when you're doing that
like Jesus Christ I got to get off this
fucking subject like there's nothing
there well yeah I do that but then I do
this thing I write on my left hand like
it's a note to self when I go if I do
Pig father talking about pigs or
something right they never talk about
pig farming yeah you guys all pig
farmers never talk about cheese again
cheese jokes do not work especially in
North East London you can you just get
it try and get lost on the way out yeah
career is over cheese's
taking over my fuck my life but do you
do some gigs
in your girl mode and some boy my boy
mode or I can I can I can do whatever
mode I want now is it complete Human
Torch thing I can flavor flavor so I can
wear a dress or I can wear trousers and
it doesn't matter and they don't give a
monkey's either that's interesting it's
now well they're your friends yeah yeah
yes yes that coming yes so but I think
they get it disappointed if you dress as
a man to see girl mode there um
they I don't know I don't care I
shouldn't care yeah I can't be on stage
great I wonder if because that's nothing
to do with the comedy yeah yes yeah and
I do think some people thought it was
you know he's going to talk about
lipstick for two hours
so anyways gross it at all
do you dress if I do drag diagonally I
will do it diagonally diagonally yeah so
it's never the front part of the the
thing I will just say I just it would
not be the front of the subject I might
point it in passing
so the front I'll talk about ancient
kings stuff with banjos dogs with
fighting cats anything like that and
then I and then I might mention it just
in passing as opposed to let me tell you
about being transgender I just don't do
that I talked about for the fights I
talk about the fight I had which is in
the street and that this guy was saying
this and I said this and so we took that
I've built the fight into a huge thing
if we stand off stuff so I just I could
make that into into something but no
it's not because it's supposed to be the
background of what I'm doing the
essential thing if you like surreal
comedy off-the-wall comedy that's what I
do
and I just happened to be transgender
which makes no odds in these days do you
find that more today than ever people
are asking you questions about
transgender issues because they're
they're at the forefront no less
actually less yeah less there was a
point at least he was a spokesperson it
was on and they would yes and well
if not spokesperson I was someone who
was gonna talk about it this right tell
us all about this and I'd do an
interview and if it was an hour
interview about 40 minutes would be on
that and then and then when they came to
write it I thought I'm just writing all
about this all right let's put that back
a bit and then it used to balance it out
when they wrote the interview out but
would you rather that they just accept
it and just not Brian and I'm fine with
it now I after the marathon's it all
changed yeah yeah because they said oh
so because I used to say action
transvestite an executive transvestite
there was I was in the or as plain New
Yorker they said article a guy was found
living in one of the caves in the park
in in New York and he fans I have a lot
of women's shoes in there so he's
probably a transversal and I went okay
well that's weirdo transvestite I'm not
living in a cave I'm traveling business
class on the plains this is executive
transmitted so I came up with that one
then the action transvestite was just
kind of a fun because I was more kind of
Boise about things that I'll give people
grief in the streets if they give me
grief and then after the marathon's it
came it became a different thing and
everyone just went oh hey I've had some
you know a member of guy this was a very
interesting altercation because hardly
any words in it so i'm i live near
Victoria coach station in London most of
the time whatever around and I was
walking down there and then anyways a
coach station some people are traveling
all over the Europe from there and I
walked up and I was in girl mode this
guy looked at me he said hey is that you
you you run all those marathons and you
wear all that clobber and then he went
oh and he was just like he was carrying
me a pass he was going well okay okay
very have to yeah well I that's what
what my I mean I didn't have a negative
opinion of you I had a positive opinion
of you but my positive opinion of you
elevated once I saw you did those
marathons like that's a person with an
iron will that's a different kind of
person like you it was so huge what you
did that everyone had to respect it like
they knew they couldn't do it or if they
could do it
they haven't you know with that backpack
should
yes I have accomplished something pretty
spectacular it was beautiful and it and
I did about five things at once and it
was raising money yes so I've like I've
raised about four and a half million
pounds when I was six million seven
million dollars so that feels great
yeah and that's with their help because
the organization's good at raising the
money and it gave me this this this
confidence this health thing back from
when I was a kid I used to be a lot of
us were run around how old were you when
you did that first one that was I was 47
so you're 47 and just decided yeah I'm
off it was it was training I wanted to
do something it's an adventure as well
and you know I think you have to live
life is an adventure otherwise life is
too hard but if you look as eventually
it means the highs and lows built into
it and I got this this health kick out
of it it was just a number that and then
I could meet people I remember on the
first math and I met three Army
sergeants who were and they said we've
heard you're doing this this one's
British Army and I was just having
somebody we halfway through my about my
10th marathon he said well hope we heard
you're doing this and well but and they
were chattin to me and you know because
I know forces and I buy all of that
mentality I'm very happy to chat and so
they I thought well this is an
interesting respect thing and they said
we're trainers we train we work out the
training regimes for the army and so we
were very interested in what you're
doing what you seem to be able to do so
they just found it fascinating and I
found that fascinating I could suddenly
talk to service people are in a certain
way a sports people in a certain way
everything just shifted you know and and
people from death different ethnic
groups
some people have weighed down on some
ethic RZA's down on being transgender
whatever but if you dig that then it
says okay we put these two together and
you're in a different place so it has
completely changed the way a lot of
people react to me yeah I can only
imagine
they don't necessarily comedy but that's
fine because they respect to you yeah
it's just certain different thing yeah
happen and and you
and I'd like to chat to people I found
that chatting is very important because
if you see someone in there's a blog
than wearing makeup whatever you get
lipstick and you go oh but if you say hi
nice weather today and they go oh yes
and then you're on a different footing
and so trying to put you into a place of
normalcy yeah well I'm trying to put
myself yeah they will they will allow me
indicating you normal it is the talking
is the most important thing just
chatting away and being boring
I have a natural boringness I think
maybe everyone has a little boring this
I think the really interesting people
probably just blow up it when in their
20s and stuff and because they just do
stuff that's too far out yeah but most
of us are pretty boring and then we add
layers of interestingness on tops to to
to reach that level of okay I think I'm
quite interesting there I think I've got
enough interesting going on but my
boringness in in chatting I am chairing
talk about weather or wood or walls or
you know trees or so that introduces the
normalcy yes they're boring well I won't
say I won't say we've got to do
something extreme now I'll just is that
about yeah normal thing yeah where'd you
get that jacket that's quite a good
jacket on you well my company I you know
just just talk about things and be human
be a human being is the biggest
controversy in America in terms of
transgender people probably the biggest
room one of the biggest is competing in
sports with biological women that's the
biggest one yes
if you asking me for answers on that I
haven't really got them I know yeah I've
got good one for for washrooms as your
cousin Larry's urinals as you can we
call them the Rhinos mhm just check them
all out and everyone just it's all
cubicles and we already do that in
restaurants we already share stuff the
toilets
we did in aeroplanes we have no bother
if you just remove urinals at in
theatres and places that won't be
queuing often the women are queuing
forever and the men are not queuing this
way everyone shares everyone behaves our
own responsibility I've heard of it
working in a school as well there's less
bullying
in the lose so it's there they just
check go it's regression of Technology I
think it says get that your own check it
out the window
everyone is a cubicle just go to the loo
and then use the mirrors and and then go
away it's everything being for both
genders yeah you just make it all even
then we get outside a lot of problems
some people will have pushback on that
and have other reasons why they didn't
like it but we don't want to be in a
washroom with men though were they
already are going into if they're
sharing and they lose in the airplane if
they're sharing it in there yeah but
it'll airplane is one you know it's a
restaurant person to go in there with it
I think their their concern is there's
you know some men are fucking creeps and
some women just want to have a place
where they could just be themselves and
check their makeup and go to the
bathroom and wash and talk amongst
others I understand that it's just I've
you know if you think about anything
that's going to change anything there's
usually something that won't remember
the only reason to do this is to
accommodate people who are transgender
in a way that it seems like it doesn't
it doesn't put them in a position where
they they it can be judged because
everyone's doing it it begs well if it
stops bullying for in you know in
schools then it's it's a number of
things in there that it could make easy
it just makes a whole whole area of
things a lot easier do you think it was
like how would it stop bullying though I
don't know what it has go I mean I'm
just giving you the figures of what I
said well they just said that they tried
it in the school and the bullying went
down she his girls and his boys together
it's like boys will bully the boys or
girls will believe the girls but if you
yeah so you have them all together they
don't
it seems so now I just punish the creeps
which is really what you mean if
someone's being a creep in a bathroom
the problem is the creep it's not the
bathroom right yeah yeah it's um anyway
so the this is you know I haven't
scientifically proved this with
chemicals and whatever but it's an idea
that gets to us to a better place and
surely we're all someone on the spectrum
of something so the idea that that
anyone who is expressing themselves in a
different way that that is a problem
if you take about it just straight me if
we all went back to how we used to think
that there was just men and women that
everyone had straight sex even that sex
no one would talk about that people
yeah Victorian age and right York with a
Victorian agent no one will talk about
that that was all horrible dating sex
was a procreation was daily yeah whole
idea of everything so if you I'm trying
to get out to a practical place where
people just go to loo and behave like
adults even the kids seem to behave more
like adults which is interesting that
makes that makes sense I see what you're
saying yeah me yeah that is the concern
right was that we have a system in place
and someone tries to change the system
then people get upset the retrench and
that always happens yeah I mean but also
women Duke you forever and men don't
queue at all right cube much less but
this makes its Mexican queueing even
even that outside just behaves like an
arrow yeah it's just a toilet the Romans
used to have it with open-plan toilets
they've seen that we have made it into a
problem we have made this a whole
psychological problem where the robbers
just sit down there and have a poo and
have a chat and once they did make it a
problem and categorize people by gender
then it became this thing and now you
don't want to change that well yeah I
don't think that yeah they might have
had men male/female toys at the moment
times but just the fact they were more
open about the idea there's bodily
functions and just normal and we've you
know back in the before we came in and
we were just going out into the woods
and in the forest and having a pool it
was just having a pool and now we feel
it's a big problem having a pool we
don't like it without rehab but we don't
want to admit that we have to pee
there's the queen ever have a poop maybe
never has the attitude be besides the
marathon thing has the attitude
culturally shifted in the UK the same
way it's shifted in America yes I think
the more there's more and more people
are out and positive I mean you've
basically got to from every group this
is ethnic groups is from women this is
from anyone that feels slightly out of
the loop if you can have a pause and
positive role models that go out there
that do other things you know just
something that's nothing to do with
sexuality you very good at cooking
you're on television for this intensity
television helps you create sports star
you're this you're that you want to
those things people say well there's a
positive role model and they are of a
different color or of a different
sexuality or they're you know and that
just helps everyone adjust their mindset
and the younger people come through and
they oh that's all they know I know
about this person I mean like you know
in baseball you see the debate the
famous documentary baseball's the Ken
Burns
yeah the Ken Burns one and that's black
people after the Civil War black people
were playing baseball and there was some
guy was very powerful he said there will
be no black people in major leagues at
all and it was blocked from about 1890
something like this all the way through
to 1950s mmm-hmm so it was actually
happening and then it went backwards
yeah so there was a positive role mom
then well they've been buy everything
haven't things can go backwards and
things go forwards and I just think you
know if we're trying to get to a world
where everyone's living there live yeah
that's really what we need right just
live and let live living as long as
you're not interfering with other
people's lives you long as you're not
doing something that somehow or another
fucks with someone else yeah like who
cares why would anyone care I mean I
think people care because they're
unhappy with themselves I think that's
the only time people care and let my my
issue with this that I've come across
was with athletes it's with transgender
athletes competing against women
particularly in my field in fighting
right there's been some there have been
at least there was one very vocal case
when we're very public case of a
transgender athlete who was male for 30
plus years transitioned over for a
couple years for two years then started
fighting women didn't tell them that she
used to be a man right and it became a
giant issue and people were outraged and
anger the women who got beat up or angry
because they got destroyed the two of
them did and then she started when she
was public about it and started fighting
women that were willing and knew you got
to say things upfront yeah I came out
that longer because I wanted to be
upfront about things so yeah and I don't
have the the great answers there's a you
know I don't have an ounce of everything
right but yeah I can see that I think
one of the interesting things about it
is that there are no real answers that
it's one of those things where you just
got to go home what do we do here and
this is this is what I think one of the
more unique things about being a person
is that we have this opportunity to look
at this unusual circumstance and
communicate about it and try to figure
it out
communication yeah the whole thing I
just need one personal thing if I came
out if we started talking about it we'd
get in a better place than not talking
about it and just saying it's a negative
when you came out to give you a feeling
of relief unbelievable I mean you know
scary you know because you got the
secret and the secret is is I did self
analysis I lay on a bed and said why am
I thinking this way what is going on why
do I get what are the thoughts like what
what because men yeah so I here's the
clearest where I can show it there was a
woman on television she said my daughter
she was 12 and she was upstairs she was
wearing my makeup but she's wearing my
heels and I told her to get that stuff
off what are you doing she said to her
daughter mmm it was 12 and that was from
an age point of view right I just
thought well that's what I'd be doing at
12th that's what I was doing my
stepmothers clothes and stuff so I
thought well hang on I'm having the
exactly same desire to express myself in
that way
so I just wanted to express myself in
that way and I was told like my society
you're not allowed to and I just thought
well you know some people are allowed to
and I'm no I've decided I gave myself
permission I said I'm allowed to and
it's not hurting anyone else and I was
stealing the makeup and after that I
started buying the record cuz the police
got me II got caught stealing me yeah
and I go back into the shelf index and I
say out by this lipstick thank you very
much oh boy they say yeah it's him again
with a plenty lipstick so yeah it's it's
you just had this desire to express
yourself yeah yeah just like some women
do and some we've been doing something I
don't know any makeup my payment yeah
yeah and if I had a if I look very
female then I would I would might wear
different things or express herself in a
different way but I'm I look kind of
more boyish more male ish so I I have
you know I choose set and close that and
look and I did that way and then um and
quite a lot of people are sort of going
okay fair play that seems okay and
you're looking fairly well put together
that's what I get so when you finally
came out the relief though yeah just you
could just be yourself
yeah just and you did and you don't tend
to look terribly when you first come out
you go well that doesn't work with that
lit you why was I wearing that's correct
but you've never had that teenage girl
chance to be around exact and have your
peer group say you're not wearing that
are you because that's okay so then I
gradually led to okay how does make it
work okay that's how it works
so you gradually get better at things
don't buy that that color doesn't work
oh it can work but if you know so but
the relief is huge because you've no
longer got this hellish secret yeah and
then you can begin the dialogue I hadn't
didn't really have a dialogue with
anyone that point but on stage I could
sing good I have friends that are in the
closet and they don't know what to do
and they in even comedian friends that
they don't talk about it they hide it
and I'm like God if you just let it go I
mean people in this day and age the
people that will accept you that's the
people you want anyway the people that
don't accept you you don't want them
like that's their own problem it's this
live-and-let-live thing the people that
don't want you to be who you actually
are to fit their own narrative in their
own head like that's those people the
crazy ones it's not you yeah it's really
obvious they're a gay people it's really
obvious they're a transgender people
it's really obvious they're not no one's
just making this down back through
history as well that's forever and also
I think I try I say quite often you know
this is a genetic thing because I don't
I didn't feel like God uh you know when
I was 23 and a half I said I think I've
all become all transgender now ya know
it was I was four or five when I first
knew and it has not moved those those
thoughts that's interesting so it I
think it is for most gay lesbian people
have talked to I just think it's locked
in its built-in it's something you get
given these cards as I say and we're
trying to be upfront and be positive and
Express oh well it only makes sense when
you look at the other variabilities the
the other variables when it comes to
people's personality their body shape
their mentality their
their ambition all these different
variables it only makes sense that
there's feminine and masculine variables
and that these shift back and forth with
certain people and that certain people
just like there is some where and like
where you are well you have boy mode and
grill mode tonight I would imagine that
you talking about it so openly and then
that you're that you're just so free
with it that there's probably people out
there that are listening to this they're
like god damn it that's me well you know
say I'm the young the youngest young
people around the world I have met
people who are they're talking about it
in school actually when I came back from
South Africa my co-writer kelan Jones
his he said can you go in and my
daughter's in class and they've been
talking about your runs in South Africa
so I went in and they could talk about
racism because I was running a salute to
Mandela 27 masu 27 years yet spend in
prison I said I could all about racism
but they could also talk about being
trans strategy and their or self
identifying and LGBT stuff because there
was some kid in this in the class who
was already identifying what did I
identify as a girl and so they were
being positive and these kids were eight
I think you know so it's it's way
different to our childhood our child was
it was just do not talk about do you
know actually and if you mention it
you're gonna get your head kicked in by
your peer group so and I was all that's
why I never mentioned it at school
especially you know I fancied girls so I
could just go in that route and did you
run into girls that had an issue with it
people that I know less of but if you
talk about relationships it gets really
tricky because yeah it reflects upon
people's relationships with yourself so
but it's it's cool and I've never been
great at relationships that's always
tricky so well you know if you've got
this career thing and I worked out how I
could work that and I can just keep
staying four steps ahead of the game and
I'm playing in all these countries know
what I'm doing the four languages that
dinner so I've got all that going but
then then had you you never really in
one place to be able to continue a
relationship and then there's the being
transsexual and that goes on so that all
gets complicated you can't be getting
everything working no so but I'm okay
with that it's all good
and and I enjoy things I've stayed I try
to make myself laugh
this isn't comedy this is my huh okay I
actually just try and add labeled I go
oh that's funny so I'm going off or this
this weird trip I gotta tell you this
but this is in later show in front of
her but I talk about j.r.r tolkien I
talk about the imagination we have
written all these stories and animals
haven't done that all the wild Amazon
seem to have written any stories haven't
heard of any good ones but we've written
that jr. are talking and I say JR
talking hey how are our talking was born
J RRR RRR RRR talking you may not know
this and people also get is this true
and it is born in bloom bloom Fontaine
South Africa you know so he's going on
there and then they moved to Birmingham
in England and it's a different axis of
basicity ever getting smarter and then
berry booming his talk that was we've
got this kind of sound like this and
then I said well he's five he turns to
his mother because he realizes he's
called Jay RRR RRR RRR
talking and he says and his bird it is
South African Birmingham twang and it
goes both of both of all calls for those
do this strangulated accent that is
trying to fight between South Africa and
Berlin and it's such a stupid lion to go
on you know there's no logic to where
I'm going and it smells great what are
you saying
jrrr icons are standing and because
she's still in South Africa and he's
good he says you so I'm spending time
going into the sidebar which is making
me laugh I think a lot of the others
what is he Wittering about and you can't
really even hear what I'm saying but I
just did this strangulated accent and in
the end he has to talk in a Yorkshire
accent to get his mother to understand
if he could cut down the number of hours
in his name
it becomes JRR talking so that's that's
typical for my stand that where I just
go off on a tangent to make yourself
laugh and yeah and and it's I think it's
sort of funny a little bit fast it's
probably more funny for me well if it's
funny for you though it's funny for
people that are listening
what's comedies contagious yeah and if
I'm you know the personal stage having a
good time then the audience should
probably have a better time and this
thing of its not being locked down that
it's living and breathing in front of
them mm-hmm they do love their and and
and you put more energy into the next
bit when you go
this and then that and the other thing
yeah so I do love Stella because it's
you know you can just do it and do it
you know there's no one well I was a
double act I was a four-person act and
whenever you if you're doubt even just a
double act if you go off on a tangent
then you have to look across to your
partner your partner want to go with it
you might not want to go with it get
right keep to the script but on your own
you could just go off and Lenny Bruce
you know the that the gigs he did in
front of the band you know that thing in
the film department yes and he's trying
like the band laughs and this is the
people of the raincoats in the front and
the strippers coming on and because when
we did the play Lenny we had a live
actual jazz band on the stage a real
good jazz musician as hi so I was trying
to make them laugh and just the way that
learning it I would try to crack them
out because I would go off script and
and if I could do this and that was just
beautiful and they said you're riffing
aren't you you're just riffing like we
were riffing I thought well this is
weird this is it was really nice to
cruise down his life and do stand-up as
close as as close to him as I could even
the mainstream I did them in more
mainstream stuff and then then then what
you know the really edgy stuff and the
weird stuff in the way where Jesus comes
at the back and you've got some some
Pat's Cathedral that whole sequence
where he's got colour pop collar pokes
Jesus is here and yeah that was fun
yeah I got very ill doing it how well
you started off dead naked and then
you've got you put your clothes on and
you're talking you start going backwards
oh so the play starts off dead yeah you
start off dead by so when he killed
himself in the bathroom yeah yeah and
then as you start and you're talking to
either God or I think I'm talking to a
judge who was a bit like a God at the
beginning of it and explaining things
and as I'm putting my clothes on so you
start off naked then you have simulated
sex with my wife about a quarter of the
way through the film um so that was
interested doing that and then you end
up dying at the end of the film so it
just it took a lot out of me three
months of that so emotionally yeah
emotionally and Maria you and then you
fizzle and I've never been ill - out of
a show but they it just took me down I
just was not well
so you think it was just contemplating
his existence his life and what he went
through I think I think it was yeah I
think part of his journey and also it
was physically very grueling its
mentally and physically quite really a
mentally really grueling and together
that that it made that I was knackered
that product just wasn't drink enough
water I should have you know I tend to
think this is a Miami trait definitely
that I will just carry on until I get it
I wouldn't necessarily think okay you're
going into a stress period now so let's
get some good water on let's eat some
healthy food and so that nothing comes
in and takes you out I just bulldoze
your way through I tend to bulldoze we
just bulldoze through three hours dairy
yeah it's three o'clock there yeah I was
thinking I have no idea how long that
crazy yeah it's like a time warp in here
well you know you're you're good at it
you're used to it I I once did a street
show for about two hours without
starting which was quite a beautiful
because on the street there's if you
imagine it there's no nothing Endre
festivals you know the able to function
and there's this place called the mound
so there's people milling around so I
was almost starting a show and I was
just mucking about for two hours I was
just there kind of not starting kind of
starting kind of chatting kind of
playing around beautiful it's I've done
the most fun things on the street
because no one's in charge of anything
there's just no rules yeah I seen deed
Chapelle do that Dave Chapelle did that
in Montreal we were doing this club soda
and he came downstairs after we did it I
think he was like 18 or 19 and just took
his hat off and started doing stand-up
and had people put money in the Hat
doing stand-up on the street that was
pretty wild
be free I see Stephen Washington Square
pie yeah yeah that's um
Charlie Burnett was famous for that
Charlie Burnett was a guy who was one of
the original Street stand-up comics in
New York and he would do that in
Washington Square Park and gather
everyone round there's video of it that
people could watch online I think he
went to he might have come over to
England at one point did he I think he
might have he was brilliant brilliant
performer really good at grabbing people
and grabbing their attention and Dave
learned a lot from him Eddie thank you
very much man thanks a lot
fun I really enjoyed it I'm really
appreciate you coming here one that we
got a chance to sit down
absolutely I tell people about your tour
where they can find where you're going
to be tickets all that jazz accom that's
where it's happening and I am next two
and a half months all the way up to
mid-july I'm around so 40 cities for all
America yeah well I've already played
all 50 states which is kind of beautiful
you played Montana I played everywhere
where'd you go in Montana I'm not sure
what's the capital city Billings I think
yeah I think we played Billings if not
only there Bozeman alone I think helena
is that it yeah what about Wyoming you
did wow yeah all of them
I'm yeah I made a point I made a skit
twice Wow we ended up in the Rye Brook
play everything one include Mississippi
and Alabama as well that's awesome so
everywhere but it's it's nice it's I
just love playing you know I just love
playing around the world
onward yeah good luck to you thank you
thank reciate you thank you
[Music]
[Applause]